<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>4. Understanding User Experience (UX)</title>
<link href="9780138249595.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:5cddacd8-016d-40ae-8bbb-614b0314c95e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<h2 class="h2" id="ch04"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_49"/><span class="big">4</span></h2>
<h2 class="h2a">Understanding User Experience (UX)</h2>
<p class="noindent">I am no UX expert, so why am I talking about UX in an architecture book? Good UX goes beyond user interfaces (UIs) and applies to all the user touchpoints in a system. Furthermore, just like performance, UX always hovers around good architecture. It makes the architect’s decisions easier and turns the odds of the system’s success in our favor.</p>
<p class="noindent">I will not write about how to create UIs because there are several good resources for that. My recommendation is <em>The Non-Designer’s Design Book</em> by Robin Williams (Peachpit Press, 2015). Instead, I will focus on the other three touchpoints—APIs, configurations, and extensions—and, when it makes sense, point out how general design concepts extend to these use cases.</p>
<p class="noindent">The main goal of this chapter is to build an appreciation for UX design among architects and to stress the need for professional expertise. Each application or system needs UX expertise in the team! The next section discusses how to think about UX while designing systems.</p>
<section>
<h3 class="h3" id="ch04lev1sec01">General UX Concepts for Architects</h3>
<p class="noindent">A perfect UX experience is like a perfect Omakase restaurant, where the chef chooses dishes for you without any input, knowing about you and anticipating what makes you happy. A perfect system anticipates what you want once you arrive there and guides you through it.</p>
<p class="noindent">Unfortunately, we cannot get an Omakase chef to sit behind each request received in our systems. Instead, we use UX concepts to make each UI component intuitive, matching the user’s mental model. Also, we can make recommendations to the user based on the current context.</p>
<p class="noindent"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_50"/>With APIs, system configurations, and extensions, there is often no UI; hence, we often cannot make recommendations to the user. Users need to navigate, find, and use what they want. A good UX experience makes this process easy by making it evident, which is the right choice and by making the process of doing that as simple as possible.</p>
<p class="noindent">For example, consider calling an API provided by our bookshop app. An example use case could be as follows: Users come to our web page, find the operation they need to call, and generate a sample client that they can download and use.</p>
<p class="noindent">Let’s walk through a few concepts or principles that help us to design a good UX.</p>
<section>
<h4 class="h4" id="ch04lev2sec01">Principle 1: Understand the Users</h4>
<p class="noindent">As you have undoubtedly heard, first, we need to understand the users. Doing so involves assessing their goals, their level of technical knowledge, their mental model of the system, and their typical workflow.</p>
<p class="noindent">For example, our bookshop’s users’ mental model will likely follow a brick-and-mortar bookshop process, where users come in, browse, ask for help, select, pay, and take the book away. In addition, the users’ actual workflow also involves providing shipping information, waiting for a book to arrive, and returning a book or talking to customer service if there is a problem. Understanding the mental model lets us anticipate our users and makes their experience seamless. This is also called the <em>principle of least astonishment</em>.</p>
<p class="noindent">One of the best ways to understand the mental model of our users is to observe them in action. Our design approach of thinking deeply and implementing slowly creates many opportunities to observe and learn from users.</p>
<p class="noindent">We should trace all user activities in the system in detail. Once the system is in production, we can learn much from those traces. Often, it is not useful to ask users because many behave differently than they themselves anticipate.</p>
<p class="noindent">Also, based on their technical knowledge, users’ expectations would be different. For example, in my experience, geeks love extension points, developers like samples and scripts, and nontechnical people prefer UIs. We need to anticipate and choose accordingly.</p>
<p class="noindent">Commonly, a system has multiple types of users who require different UXs. There can be users who use the system to do different tasks, and new users may behave differently from experienced or expert users. Balancing those different UXs while leaving cues for different types of users is required. This makes UX design complex.</p>
</section>
<section>
<h4 class="h4" id="ch04lev2sec02">Principle 2: Do as Little as Possible</h4>
<p class="noindent">As we have discussed, we should implement only the necessary features. Everything you expose to the customer is a liability. For example, users get used to the features once offered, changing their mental model and expectations as needed. Even if you offer less-than-perfect experiences, <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_51"/>removing them is tough because some users might be attached to those features. Furthermore, features create more opportunities for mistakes, diluting the focus on getting the UX right.</p>
<p class="noindent">If there are widely used standards (e.g., security standards such as OAuth), we should adopt them. They save us the work of figuring out the UX, and usually, users already know well-known standards.</p>
</section>
<section>
<h4 class="h4" id="ch04lev2sec03">Principle 3: Good Products Do Not Need a Manual: Its Use Is Self-Evident</h4>
<p class="noindent">As discussed in several UX books such as <em>Don’t Make Me Think</em> by Steve Krug (New Riders Publishing, 2006), users do <em>not</em> read the manual. As users, we all think we can figure it out. If we can’t, then we decide (rightly) that the product is bad or inferior. If you attract customers and get them to invest in the application, they might later read the manual for advanced instructions but never for easy things and never at the early stage.</p>
<p class="noindent">Hence, from the moment users arrive, we need to anticipate what they want and guide them either through explicit recommendations or subtle cues. For this process, the mental model and typical workflow we discussed previously are invaluable.</p>
</section>
<section>
<h4 class="h4" id="ch04lev2sec04">Principle 4: Think in Terms of Information Exchange</h4>
<p class="noindent">Users come to our system to get something done. The faster they can find what they need to do and do it, the happier they will be. If we can provide that UX without asking them anything, that’s even better.</p>
<p class="noindent">A few years back, I was flying on Northwest Airlines, and my baggage did not arrive at my destination. The next day I called to find out where the baggage was. When the call connected, before I told them anything, the automatic system told me where the baggage was and asked me to press 0 if I needed any more information. This was my perfect Omakase moment. Not only did it make me happy, but it also saved Northwest Airlines money in the long run and provided happy customers.</p>
<p class="noindent">It is not always possible to guess the intent without input from users. Then, we need to ask the users</p>
<ul class="bull">
<li><p class="bullet">For as little information as possible</p></li>
<li><p class="bullet">In the easiest way to get an answer</p></li>
</ul>
<p class="noindent">The first rule is to ask for as little information as possible, but if we can find a good default, we need to use it and not ask the users. If possible, remember the information or derive it from what we know about the users. For example, JVM, when starting up, looks at our hardware configurations and configures itself.</p>
<p class="noindent"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_52"/>Also, never ask for the same information twice. If you must ask for information, ask in the easiest way possible to get an answer. For example, JVM lets the users set two modes: a server mode and an application mode. Instead of asking how to set the different configurations, JVM asks its users a question that they can easily answer and then derives the detailed configurations from the answer.</p>
<p class="noindent">Another option is to use different UI controls (e.g., Date, Map, Photo) to make it easier for users to provide their input. If users need to learn more to make a good decision related to a configuration, then we must pick a default.</p>
<p class="noindent">When you provide information to users, unless there is a performance concern, always provide more information and in a form users understand to help anticipate their needs. If users must get data from one call and pass it to another call, let them do that with the least amount of change to the data.</p>
</section>
<section>
<h4 class="h4" id="ch04lev2sec05">Principle 5: Make Simple Things Simple</h4>
<p class="noindent">When users first start using our system, they are often on the fence and unconvinced. The longer they use our system, however, the more comfortable they get and the more they feel invested in the system. Often, we are at a high risk of churn when a new user starts, but this risk lessens with time.</p>
<p class="noindent">A user’s first experiences with our system should be inviting and simple. We must really think through the UX and make the first few things the user does as easy as possible, removing any barriers and roadblocks. For example, a simple thing a user would want from a bookshop is to find a book. A search control should be prominent, easy to use, and when possible, we should be proactive by showing what we think they like even before issuing the search.</p>
<p class="noindent">Similarly, with the book search API, letting users download a preconfigured client removes the burden of configuring it themselves. We can include a sample showing how to do that, making the first instructions simple.</p>
<p class="noindent">With the first few things, we must educate users seamlessly and as deeply as possible. For example, Amazon Kindle does this elegantly in the first bootup and, in a few steps, explains how the UI works.</p>
</section>
<section>
<h4 class="h4" id="ch04lev2sec06">Principle 6: Design UX Before Implementation</h4>
<p class="noindent">Focusing on the UX before the architecture lets us zoom in to the details without bringing the underlying implementation to the picture. By digging into the UX early, we can avoid many costly changes, and the UX always needs a feedback cycle to get the system right. Keep in mind that this is a major factor in delaying the features, which is a recurring theme in this book.</p>
<p class="noindent"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_53"/>Let us now explore how these principles apply to configurations, APIs, and extensions. As mentioned, I will not discuss UIs, which is a frequent subject in many books, because I have no hope of doing better.</p>
</section>
</section>
<section>
<h3 class="h3" id="ch04lev1sec02">UX Design for Configurations</h3>
<p class="noindent">Configurations let users change the behavior of a system. For example, the following is a YAML configuration file for a Go server:</p>
<pre class="pre1"><code># config.yml
server:
  host: 127.0.0.1
  port: 8080
  timeout:
    server: 30
    <strong>read: 15</strong>
    write: 10
    idle: 5</code></pre>
<p class="noindent">With configurations, we should start with the first principle of understanding the users and then use the second principle by doing as little as possible.</p>
<p class="noindent">Avoid configurations as much as possible. As developers, when we cannot decide between two design choices and choose to create a configuration option, we pass the problem on to the users. This is a terrible idea: We are making the users’ and solution architects’ lives difficult. Because they know even less about how the system works than we do, users often can’t decide well.</p>
<p class="noindent">While we are creating configurations, the best option is to find a choice that works every time and to avoid the configuration. The next best strategy is to automatically make a choice, and the third best approach is to add a configuration parameter, setting a reasonable default. We must ask the question: Would users have a better context than me for choosing the configuration? If yes, configurations are needed; if no, we must avoid the configuration.</p>
<p class="noindent">For example, let’s consider the number of threads in a server. Who is best placed to set the number? We, the designers, understand how the server works a lot better than the end users. Thus, we need to set the number. Yes, the thread count depends on the load received by the server, but we can measure and adjust the thread count without passing it on to the user.</p>
<p class="noindent">Sometimes, however, it is acceptable to ask the users. Consider a mobile app. Some users are mindful of mobile data usage, and some are not. We can ask, and if they say yes, we can automatically schedule downloads to times when mobile data is cheap. This configuration is good because it is about the users, and it is something they can answer meaningfully.</p>
<p class="noindent"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_54"/>Next, let’s explore applications of not forcing users to read the manual. All configurations must have sensible defaults. Then, if users do not understand the configuration, they can leave it alone. However, it is acceptable initially to ask users a few questions if they are straightforward questions, even if configurations should have defaults. For example, it is OK for an app to ask for a user’s city, but even then, it should default to the most populated city.</p>
<p class="noindent">For our configurations, unlike other applications, we can provide a manual. Poorly designed configurations can create much confusion. Always document a few sample values, possible ranges, and their meanings for the configuration, which we can add either to the configuration file or as helpful tips in the configuration UI.</p>
<p class="noindent">A key aspect of understanding users is asking for configuration values in terms of things the users can answer readily, without making mental calculations to set the value. For example, do not ask for the number of maximum cache entries; instead, ask for the cache memory limit. Java asks us to choose an application mode, server versus client, instead of questions such as how much memory the application can use.</p>
<p class="noindent">Finally, we should throw an error if we see an unknown configuration or the configurations failed to apply. Silent configuration errors are a source of many lost hours when debugging.</p>
<p class="noindent">Always make it easy to find the current effective configuration after all configurations are applied. For example, a server can show the current active configurations (e.g., number of threads used, cache settings, and so forth) when it starts.</p>
</section>
<section>
<h3 class="h3" id="ch04lev1sec03">UX Design for APIs</h3>
<p class="noindent">Humans consume web pages and mobile apps, while computer programs (code) consume APIs. APIs enable the user system to work with other systems, creating value and great UXs. For example, the price API or recommendation API in the bookshop lets other sites show our books within their content (to get referral payments for the business they send our way).</p>
<p class="noindent">APIs can be internal or public. Internal APIs connect different services in a system and create a tightly integrated program. At the same time, public APIs can become leaks. Data that gives you a competitive advantage can leak out through public APIs. It is critical to evaluate those aspects before opening the APIs.</p>
<p class="noindent">Often, public APIs are an advanced use case and are usually enabled beyond the first minimum viable product (MVP). However, most systems have at least a few internal APIs, and most mobile apps have a backend that can later become an API.</p>
<p class="noindent">We should start designing APIs early. Once an API is released and others have been built on top of it, changing it is tough. Although you might design and even build code for APIs, expose them to the users only when it is necessary. If possible, we should use the APIs internally before making them public because that enables us to find and fix problems.</p>
<p class="noindent"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_55"/>Let’s consider the first principle: understanding the user. APIs are used by other systems. Because other software developers use the APIs within code, we need to optimize APIs for software developers.</p>
<p class="noindent">Considering the first, third, and fourth principles, a good API is easy to learn and hard to misuse, and at each step, the next step is apparent. By understanding the users, their mental model, and the workflow, we can achieve all three principles. For example, the API for the bookshop can closely follow a brick-and-mortar bookshop’s mental model, making it easier for users to know what to do at each step.</p>
<p class="noindent">Considering the second principle—do as few features as possible—useful APIs do one thing and do it well. If we are not sure, we should leave out the feature.</p>
<p class="noindent">Considering the fifth principle, avoid boilerplate code. Think in terms of information and ask as little as possible. For example, if our users want to initiate a book search, all they should be doing is initializing a bookshop with configurations as a search call with keywords. This code snippet provides an example:</p>
<p class="codelink"><a href="ch04_images.xhtml#f0055-01a" id="f0055-01">Click here to view code image</a></p>
<pre class="pre1"><code>Bookshop bookShop = new Bookshop("/path/to/downloaded/config/file")
Book[] books = bookShop.search("Design Deeply")
bookShop.buy(book[5])</code></pre>
<p class="noindent">Note that we can avoid the configuration step by letting the users download a personalized configured client or a configuration file.</p>
<p class="noindent">If a client has to send information back in follow-up calls, we need to create an object to enclose the information and ask the client to send it back. For example, in the previous code snippet, when buying a book, we can pass in the book object we received from the search without understanding the format of the book object.</p>
<p class="noindent">If there are widely adopted standards for APIs, we should use them (e.g., OpenID, OpenAuth). Even when standards have room for improvement, it is a good idea to adopt the standards and, when possible, to provide an API on top to improve the UX. The best technology only sometimes wins, but standards that have momentum usually persist even when they are not the best technical answer. Bet on standards and adoption over technical correctness.</p>
<p class="noindent">Most APIs work over HTTP, although they can also work over other transport protocols such as message queues, which we should choose based on the use case. Also, when possible, we should provide a client library to users. If we control both the client and the server, we have a lot more room for changes, and it simplifies the design. However, sometimes it takes work to provide client libraries because our APIs are used by clients running in many different environments.</p>
<p class="noindent">Finally, we must version our APIs from the first design. Once the design is adopted, it is tough to ask customers to change their code, and the only way to update an API is to release new <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_56"/>versions. While designing, we should communicate versioning in a manner that enables the standard load balancer to reroute requests to correct versions (e.g., via HTTP headers).</p>
</section>
<section>
<h3 class="h3" id="ch04lev1sec04">UX Design for Extensions</h3>
<p class="noindent">We use extensions when there are too many viable approaches within the problem scope, but the developers must choose one (for example, if the system accepts a date as a string). There are many acceptable date formats, and we can use extensions to support those formats.</p>
<p class="noindent">Also, if the system can ingest data from many sources, we can leave extensions to enable new data sources. Activation functions and other extension points in the machine learning workflow are also good examples of extensions, where data scientists can use those extensions to change the behavior of the algorithms.</p>
<p class="noindent">Well-designed extensions magnify the flexibility of a system; thus, they are powerful. If necessary, we can refactor the code to add extensions later. Indeed, it is a good idea to wait until we understand the use cases deeply.</p>
<p class="noindent">Extension points are not limited to single-node apps or services. A service or cloud function can also act as an extension point. For example, Amazon uses cloud functions to extend the functionalities of its cloud platform, which is another good use of extensions.</p>
<p class="noindent">The key challenge with extensions is that once they are written, they are hard to change. As a result, users are forced to live with older versions of the system, which in the long run, increases the maintenance costs of the system. If possible, the system should encourage users to contribute the extensions back to the code base, where the original developers can maintain them.</p>
<p class="noindent">When we design extensions, we should decide what they can do. Just like a good API, a good extension also does one thing and does it well. We should define the input and output to control what our extensions can do. Input and output should be in terms of things the users understand, like APIs and configurations.</p>
<p class="noindent">You must never expose internal data structures through extensions. Why? Because extensions break when we change internal data structures.</p>
<p class="noindent">In most cases, few people write extensions, and our effort expanded on extensions should also reflect this. However, sometimes we engage in open source contributions through extensions, which help us attract a wider user population. In such cases, much more investment in extensions can be justified. A great example of this is iOS apps, which are extensions to iPhones and iPads. Apple was able to enlist thousands of developers to extend the iPhone.</p>
<p class="noindent">Due to its central aspect, this book argues that system design should start with a UX design. My main goal in this chapter is twofold: to build an appreciation for UX design among architects and to emphasize the need for professional expertise. I highly recommend that your team include a world-class UX designer.</p>
</section>
<section>
<h3 class="h3" id="ch04lev1sec05"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_57"/>Leadership Considerations</h3>
<p class="noindent">UX, or user experience, is tricky to change once users have seen and used it. Changes can upset and confuse users and can even cause some systems to fail. So, we must pay careful attention to UX. This means we should always apply the principle of thinking deeply and implementing slowly when it comes to UX.</p>
<p class="noindent">Common mistakes in many projects related to UX include</p>
<ul class="bull">
<li><p class="bullet">Not having enough UX expertise on board</p></li>
<li><p class="bullet">Inviting UX experts too late in the process</p></li>
<li><p class="bullet">Overemphasizing the user interface (UI) while neglecting the UX of APIs, configurations, and extensions</p></li>
<li><p class="bullet">Overlooking suggestions from UX professionals</p></li>
</ul>
<p class="noindent">As a leader, you must ensure these mistakes don’t occur. Given the importance of UX (see <a href="ch02.xhtml#ch02">Chapter 2</a>, Question 2), having UX expertise on the team is a must. If we lack UX skills, we’ll likely face significant costs down the line.</p>
<p class="noindent">Sometimes, UX experts might overly focus on the UI, neglecting the broader aspects of UX, such as APIs and configurations. Try to find experts who can handle broader UX aspects.</p>
<p class="noindent">Another potential issue is that technical leaders may outline the overall UX and only ask UX experts to fine-tune the UIs. It’s crucial to involve UX experts in broader UX discussions and heed their advice.</p>
<p class="noindent">Furthermore, the iterative model we’re proposing naturally incorporates UX:</p>
<ul class="bull">
<li><p class="bullet">Principle 1: Drive everything from the user’s journey.</p></li>
<li><p class="bullet">Principle 2: Use an iterative thin slice strategy.</p></li>
<li><p class="bullet">Principle 3: On each iteration, add the most value for the least effort to support more users.</p></li>
</ul>
<p class="noindent">Moreover, <a href="ch02.xhtml#ch02">Chapter 2</a>, Principle 5—Design deeply things that are hard to change but implement them slowly—provides many chances to watch and learn from the users. One of the best ways to grasp our users’ mindset is to observe them in action. Hence, I recommend starting by designing the UX, which can prevent many expensive changes.</p>
</section>
<section>
<h3 class="h3" id="ch04lev1sec06">Summary</h3>
<p class="noindent">This chapter is much shorter than <a href="ch03.xhtml#ch03">Chapter 3</a>. That’s because my aim isn’t to teach you UX principles but to emphasize its importance and persuade you to bring UX expertise into the team early on and listen to their advice. Additionally, I want to stress the importance of UX for APIs, configurations, and extensions.</p>
<p class="noindent"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_58"/>In this chapter, we discussed six UX principles that are useful for system architects. Then we talked about how those concepts apply to different touchpoints: configurations, APIs, and extensions. In the next few chapters, we’ll look at the macro architecture.</p>
<p class="noindent">Here are a few more key learnings from this chapter:</p>
<ul class="bull">
<li><p class="bullet">A well-designed system interacts with its users seamlessly.</p></li>
<li><p class="bullet">A UX design plays a vital role in sound design, defining and fine-tuning user touchpoints: APIs, configurations, and extensions.</p></li>
<li><p class="bullet">A deep UX understanding helps us separate critical and nonessential features, which is a critical aspect of our design philosophy.</p></li>
</ul>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>