<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Pearson’s Commitment to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion</title>
<link href="9780138249595.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:5cddacd8-016d-40ae-8bbb-614b0314c95e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<h2 class="h2f" id="pref01"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_v"/>Pearson’s Commitment to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion</h2>
<p class="noindent">Pearson is dedicated to creating bias-free content that reflects the diversity of all learners. We embrace the many dimensions of diversity, including but not limited to race, ethnicity, gender, socioeconomic status, ability, age, sexual orientation, and religious or political beliefs.</p>
<p class="noindent">Education is a powerful force for equity and change in our world. It has the potential to deliver opportunities that improve lives and enable economic mobility. As we work with authors to create content for every product and service, we acknowledge our responsibility to demonstrate inclusivity and incorporate diverse scholarship so that everyone can achieve their potential through learning. As the world’s leading learning company, we have a duty to help drive change and live up to our purpose to help more people create a better life for themselves and to create a better world.</p>
<p class="noindent">Our ambition is to purposefully contribute to a world where:</p>
<ul class="bull">
<li><p class="bullet">Everyone has an equitable and lifelong opportunity to succeed through learning.</p></li>
<li><p class="bullet">Our educational products and services are inclusive and represent the rich diversity of learners.</p></li>
<li><p class="bullet">Our educational content accurately reflects the histories and experiences of the learners we serve.</p></li>
<li><p class="bullet">Our educational content prompts deeper discussions with learners and motivates them to expand their own learning (and worldview).</p></li>
</ul>
<p class="noindent">While we work hard to present unbiased content, we want to hear from you about any concerns or needs with this Pearson product so that we can investigate and address them.</p>
<ul class="bull">
<li><p class="bullet">Please contact us with concerns about any potential bias at <a href="https://www.pearson.com/report-bias.html">https://www.pearson.com/report-bias.html</a>.<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_vi"/></p></li>
</ul>
</section>
</body>
</html>