<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>About the Author</title>
<link href="9780138249595.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:5cddacd8-016d-40ae-8bbb-614b0314c95e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<h2 class="h2f" id="pref02"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xv"/>About the Author</h2>
<p class="noindent">I started my architecting journey as an Apache open-source developer and have continued that for 20 years. I learned a lot by watching and later participating in architecture discussions in developer lists for those open-source projects, which is a great place for an aspiring architect to start.</p>
<p class="noindent">I have played a major role in the architecture of Apache Axis2, Apache Airavata, WSO2 CEP (Siddhi), and WSO2 Choreo. I have designed two SOAP engines and worked closely with four. I was (and continue to be) a committer (a developer who can commit to a code base) for Apache Axis, Axis2, Apache Geronimo, and Apache Airavata.</p>
<p class="noindent">I joined WSO2 in 2009. WSO2 products are used by many Fortune 500 companies such as airlines, banks, governments, and so on. At WSO2, I played an architecture review role for 10+ projects and 100+ releases. I reviewed hundreds of customer-solution architectures and deployments and sat in on thousands of architecture reviews.</p>
<p class="noindent">At WSO2, when we faced a problem that could not be resolved by the immediate team, we set up a war room, where a hand-picked team restlessly attacked the problem. I have been in many war rooms and have led several, which have made me painfully aware of mistakes made in the software architecture. I’ve had a front row seat to world-class technical leadership and have also built many systems and learned from mistakes.</p>
<p class="noindent">Later switching to analytics and AI-related topics, I co-designed WSO2 Siddhi and envisioned and shaped the AI features in WSO2 Choreo. Throughout this time, I published 40+ peer-reviewed research articles, which have been referenced by thousands of other research publications.</p>
<p class="noindent">I hope you enjoy this book. Given the central role software plays in the world today, I will be content if this book helps make you a better software architect, knowing that I have contributed to better software that will be the lifeblood of the world for many years.</p>
<div class="sidebar">
<p class="noindent">Register your copy of <strong><em>Software Architecture and Decision-Making</em></strong> on the InformIT site for convenient access to updates and/or corrections as they become available. To start the registration process, go to <a href="http://informit.com/register">informit.com/register</a> and log in or create an account. Enter the product ISBN (<strong>9780138249595</strong>) and click Submit. Look on the Registered Products tab for an Access Bonus Content link next to this product, and follow that link to access any available bonus materials. If you would like to be notified of exclusive offers on new editions and updates, please check the box to receive email from us.<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xvi"/></p>
</div>
</section>
</body>
</html>