<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
	<head>
		<title>NOTES, Thinking in Bets</title>
		<link href="../css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<meta name="Adept.resource" value="urn:uuid:5d97e825-beca-146f-c939-a5f83268350e"/>
	</head>
	<body id="x9780735216365_EPUB-12"><div style="display:none;"><a id="GBS.0213.01"/></div>
		<div class="HT">
			<div class="left-border">
				<h1 class="x03-Chapter-Number" id="_idParaDest-79"><span xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_241" title="241"/>NOTES</h1>
			</div>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes-Head-A-First">INTRODUCTION : WHY THIS ISN’T A POKER BOOK</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes">On several occasions in the book, I refer to tournament poker results. In addition to cash games, poker can be played in a tournament format. In tournaments, players pay an entry fee and receive tournament chips, good only within the competition. They play at assigned tables, at stakes designed to rise on a pre-established<a id="GBS.0213.02"/> schedule, and are eliminated when they lose all their chips. The tournament winner ends up with all the chips, but prize money is awarded based on order of finish. My source for tournament titles and earnings is the Hendon Mob Database (pokerdb.thehendonmob.com), which includes results from over 300,000 events going back to the first World Series of Poker in 1970.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes-Head-A">CHAPTER 1: LIFE IS POKER,<a id="GBS.0213.03"/> NOT CHESS</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes"><a href="07_CHAPTER_1_Life_Is_Pok.xhtml#EndnotePhraseInText0"><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">Pete Carroll and the Monday Morning Quarterbacks</span></a><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">:</span> I refer throughout the book to Pete Carroll’s play-call at the end of the Super Bowl and the reaction. The critical stories referred to by headlines are Chris Chase, “What on Earth Was Seattle Thinking with Worst Play Call in NFL History?,” <i>USA Today</i>, February 1, 2015, http://ftw.usatoday.com/2015/02/seattle-seahawks-last-play-interception-marshawn-<a id="GBS.0213.04"/>lynch-super-bowl-malcolm-butler-play-clal-pete-carroll; Mark Maske, “‘Worst Play-Call in Super Bowl History’ Will Forever Alter Perception of Seahawks, Patriots,” <i>Washington Post</i>, February 2, 2015, https://<span xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_242" title="242"/>www.washingtonpost.com/news/sports/wp/2015/02/02/worst-play-call-in-super-bowl-history-will-forever-alter-perception-of-seahawks-patriots; Alex Marvez, “Dumbest Call in Super Bowl History Could<a id="GBS.0213.05"/> Be Beginning of the End for Seattle Seahawks,” FoxSports.com, February 2, 2015, http://www.foxsports.com/nfl/story/super-bowl-seattle-seahawks-pete-carroll-darrell-bevell-russell-wilson-dumbest-call-ever-020215; Jerry Brewer, “Seahawks Lost Because of the Worst Call in Super Bowl History,” <i>Seattle Times</i>, February 1, 2015, http://old.seattletimes.com/html/seahawks/2025601887_brewer02xml.html; and<a id="GBS.0214.01"/> Nicholas Dawidoff, “A Coach’s Terrible Super Bowl Mistake,” <i>New Yorker</i>, February 2, 2015, http://www.newyorker.com/news/sporting-scene/pete-carroll-terrible-super-bowl-mistake.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes-Para">The stories explaining the potentially sound rationale for the play-call are Brian Burke, “Tough Call: Why Pete Carroll’s Decision to Pass Was Not as Stupid as It Looked,” Slate.com, February 2, 2015, http://www.slate.com/articles/spo<a id="GBS.0214.02"/>rts/sports_nut/2015/02/why_pete_carroll_s_decision_to_pass_wasn_t_the_worst_play_call_ever.html, and Benjamin Morris, “A Head Coach Botched the End of the Super Bowl, and It Wasn’t Pete Carroll,” FiveThirtyEight.com, February 2, 2015, https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/a-head-coach-botched-the-end-of-the-super-bowl-and-it-wasnt-pete-carroll. The description of Pete Carroll’s appearance<a id="GBS.0214.03"/> on the <i>Today</i> show came from Chris Wesseling, “Pete Carroll Concedes ‘Worst Result of a Call Ever,” NFL.com, February 5, 2015, http://www.nfl.com/news/story/0ap3000000469003/article/pete-carroll-concedes-worst-result-of-a-call-ever.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes-Para">The game information and statistics are from Pro-Football-Reference.com, though many of them also appeared in accounts and analyses of the game.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes"><a href="07_CHAPTER_1_Life_Is_Pok.xhtml#EndnotePhraseInText1"><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">Quick or dead: our brains weren’t built for rationality</span></a><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase"><a id="GBS.0214.04"/>:</span> For a good overview on our problems processing data, including assuming causation when there is only a correlation and cherry-picking data to confirm the narrative we prefer, see the <i>New York Times</i> op-ed by Gary Marcus and Ernest Davis, “Eight (No, Nine!) Problems with Big Data,” on April 6, 2014.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes-Para">In addition to the sources mentioned in this section and additional materials cited in the Selected<a id="GBS.0214.05"/> Bibliography and Recommendations for Further Reading, Colin Camerer was nice enough to spend two hours on the phone talking with me about this subject. I highly recommend watching his outstanding TEDx Talk, “Neuroscience, Game Theory, Monkeys,” which includes a fun look at where chimpanzees are actually better at game theory than humans.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes"><span xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_243" title="243"/><a href="07_CHAPTER_1_Life_Is_Pok.xhtml#EndnotePhraseInText2"><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">Dr. Strangelove</span></a><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">:</span> I met historian George Dyson (son of<a id="GBS.0215.01"/> Freeman Dyson) at a mentoring conference for youth called Adventures of the Mind. The conference was held at the Institute for Advanced Study. During my speech, I mentioned—as I do in practically every speech—John von Neumann and told the students that this site was hallowed ground for me because it’s where von Neumann worked. George heard me say that and later e-mailed me a scan of one of von Neumann’s<a id="GBS.0215.02"/> gambling markers.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes-Para">The information about von Neumann, in addition to the sources mentioned in the section (which are cited in the Selected Bibliography and Recommendations for Further Reading), are from the following sources: Boston Public Library, “100 Most Influential Books of the Century,” posted on TheGreatestBooks.org; Tim Hartford, “A Beautiful Theory,” <i>Forbes,</i> December 10, 2006; Institute<a id="GBS.0215.03"/> for Advanced Study, “John von Neumann’s Legacy,” IAS.edu; Alexander Leitch, “von Neumann, John,” <i>A Princeton Companion </i>(1978); Robert Leonard, “From Parlor Games to Social Science: von Neumann, Morgenstern, and the Creation of Game Theory 1928–1944,” <i>Journal of Economic Literature</i> (1995).</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes-Para">The quotes from reviews that greeted <i>Theory of Games</i> are from Harold W. Kuhn’s introduction to the sixtieth<a id="GBS.0215.04"/> anniversary edition.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes-Para">The influences behind the title character in <i>Dr. Strangelove</i> either are alluringly vague or differ based on who’s telling (or speculating). John von Neumann shared a number of physical characteristcs with the character and is usually cited as an influence. Others named as influences include Wernher von Braun, Herman Kahn, Edward Teller, and Henry Kissinger. Except for<a id="GBS.0215.05"/> Kissinger, who was a relatively obscure Harvard professor when the film was made, these are all conceivable models.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes-Para">The influence of John von Neumann on game theory, and of game theory on modern economics, is unquestioned. At least eleven Nobel laureates in economics have been cited for their work connected with or influenced by game theory. NobelPrize.org has cited the following eleven winners<a id="GBS.0216.01"/> of the Prize in Economic Sciences (formally called “The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel”), by year, field, and contribution: (1) John C. Harsanyi, (2) John F. Nash Jr., and (3) Reinhard Selten (1994, game theory, “for their pioneering analysis of equilibria in the theory of non-cooperative games”); (4) Robert J. Aumann and (5) Thomas C. Schelling (2005,<a id="GBS.0216.02"/> game theory, “for having enhanced our understanding of conflict and cooperation through game theory analysis”); (6) Leonid Hurwicz, (7) Eric S. Maskin, and (8) Roger B. Myerson (2007, microeconomics, “for having laid the foundations of mechanism design theory”); (9) Alvin E. Roth and (10) <span xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_244" title="244"/>Lloyd S. Shapley (2012, applied game theory, “for the theory of stable allocations and the practice of market<a id="GBS.0216.03"/> design”); and (11) Jean Tirole (2014, industrial organization, microeconomics, “for his analysis of market power and regulation”).</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes"><a href="07_CHAPTER_1_Life_Is_Pok.xhtml#EndnotePhraseInText3"><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">Poker vs. chess</span></a><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">:</span> My brother Howard came from a chess background, but the movement of players from chess into poker is relatively rare. In my opinion, the lack of uncertainty in chess compared with the great uncertainty in poker is a barrier to transitioning from<a id="GBS.0216.04"/> one to the other. In contrast, during my time in poker there was a lot of crossover between backgammon and poker. Many of the greatest poker players are also world-class backgammon players: Chip Reese, Huckleberry Seed, Jason Lester, Gus Hansen, Paul Magriel, Dan Harrington, and Erik Seidel. The greater crossover with backgammon likely comes from the more prominent element of uncertainty that backgammon<a id="GBS.0216.05"/> and poker share. Poker players have to navigate the luck in the deal of the cards. Backgammon players have to navigate the luck in the roll of the dice.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes"><a href="07_CHAPTER_1_Life_Is_Pok.xhtml#EndnotePhraseInText4"><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">A lethal battle of wits</span></a><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">:</span> The scene between Westley and Vizzini from <i>The Princess Bride</i> should be instantly familiar to generations of movie fans. The quotes from the lethal battle of wits are actually from the novel, though the scenes are<a id="GBS.0217.01"/> nearly identical in both formats. The only notable difference is one instance where author-screenwriter William Goldman and director Rob Reiner expertly adapted Vizzini’s overconfidence to the appropriate medium. When Vizzini introduces the man in black to his indescribable intellect, movie-Vizzini gets right to the point, reciting the names of antiquity’s greatest minds and concluding, by comparison:<a id="GBS.0217.02"/> “MORONS!” In the novel, Goldman has Vizzini deliver a pompous, gasbaggy speech. This is the speech in its entirety: “There are no words to contain all my wisdom. I am so cunning, crafty and clever, so filled with deceit, guile and chicanery, such a knave, so shrewd, cagey as well as calculating, as diabolical as I am vulpine, as tricky as I am untrustworthy . . . well, I told you there were not<a id="GBS.0217.03"/> words invented yet to explain how great my brain is, but let me put it this way: the world is several million years old and several billion people have at one time or another trod upon it, but I, Vizzini the Sicilian, am, speaking with pure candor and modesty, the slickest, sleekest, sliest and wiliest fellow who has yet come down the pike.”</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes-Para">When talking about 4 coin flips versus 10,000, I<a id="GBS.0217.04"/> was speaking relatively. There has actually been a lot of work done on how many times you need to flip a coin to determine if the coin is fair. If you are interested, you can read an explanation in <i>Wikipedia</i>, s.v. “Checking Whether a Coin Is Fair,” accessed June 1, 2017, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Checking_whether_a_coin_is_fair.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes"><span xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_245" title="245"/><a href="07_CHAPTER_1_Life_Is_Pok.xhtml#EndnotePhraseInText5"><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">Redefining wrong</span></a><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">:</span> For the quotes about how, in setting odds<a id="GBS.0217.05"/> in advance of the Brexit vote, the bookmakers got it “wrong,” see Jon Sindreu, “Big London Bets Tilted Bookmakers’ ‘Brexit’ Odds,” <i>Wall Street Journal</i>, June 26, 2016, https://www.wsj.com/articles/big-london-bets-tilted-bookmakers-brexit-odds-1466976156, and Alan Dershowitz, “Why It’s Impossible to Predict This Election,” <i>Boston Globe</i>, September 13, 2016, https://www.bostonglobe.com/opinion/2016/09/13/why-impossi<a id="GBS.0218.01"/>ble-predict-this-election/Y7B4N39FqasHzuiO81sWEO/story.html. If you are interested in more details about the confusion that follows when you declare someone “right” or “wrong” about a prediction, I wrote on the topic right after the Brexit vote and again before the presidential election. “Bookies vs. Bankers on Brexit: Who’s Gambling Now?,” Huff ingtonPost.com, July 13, 2016, http://www.huffington<a id="GBS.0218.02"/>post.com/entry/bookies-vs-bankers-on-brexit-whos-gambling-now_us_57866312e4b0cbf01e9ef902, and “Even Dershowitz? Mistaking Odds for Wrong When the Underdog Wins,” <i>Huffington Post</i>, September 21, 2016, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/annie-duke/even-dershowitz-mistaking_b_12120592.html.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes-Para">Nate Silver and his website, FiveThirtyEight.com, bore the brunt of the criticism for pollsters and forecasters<a id="GBS.0218.03"/> after the 2016 presidential election. Silver’s site updated, in real time, polling and forecasting data on the election and had (depending on the date) the probability of a Clinton victory at approximately 60%–70%. If you Google (without the quotation marks) “Nate Silver got it wrong election,” 465,000 results come up. <i>Politico</i>’s November 9 headline was “How Did Everyone Get It So Wrong?,” http://www.politico.co<a id="GBS.0218.04"/>m/story/2016/11/how-did-everyone-get-2016-wrong-presidential-election-231036. Gizmodo.com jumped on Silver even before the election, in a November 4 article by Matt Novak titled “Nate Silver’s Very Very Wrong Predictions About Donald Trump Are Terrifying,” http://paleofuture.gizmodo.com/nate-silvers-very-very-wrong-predictions-about-donald-t-1788583912, including the declaration,<a id="GBS.0218.05"/> “Silver has no f**king idea.”</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes-Head-A">CHAPTER 2: WANNA BET?</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes"><a href="08_CHAPTER_2_Wanna_Bet_.xhtml#EndnotePhraseInText6"><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">Hearing is believing</span></a><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">:</span> The quote about baldness is from Susan Scutti, “Going Bald Isn’t Your Mother’s Fault; Maternal Genetics Are Not to Blame,” <i>Medical Daily</i>, May 18, 2015, http://www.medicaldaily.com/going-bald-isnt-your-mothers-fault-maternal-genetics-are-not-blame-333668. There are numerous lists of such common misconceptions, such<a id="GBS.0219.01"/> as Emma Glanfield’s “Coffee Isn’t Made from Beans, You Can’t See the Great Wall of China from Space and Everest ISN’T the World’s <span xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_246" title="246"/>Tallest Mountain: The Top 50 Misconceptions That Have Become Modern Day ‘Facts,’” <i>Daily Mail</i>, April 22, 2015, http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3050941/Coffee-isn-t-beans-t-Great-Wall-China-space-Everest-ISN-T-worlds-tallest-mountain-Experts-unveil-life-s-50-misconceptions-moder<a id="GBS.0219.02"/>n-day-facts.html; <i>Wikipedia,</i> s.v. “List of Common Misconceptions,” accessed June 27, 2017, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_common_misconceptions.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes"><a href="08_CHAPTER_2_Wanna_Bet_.xhtml#EndnotePhraseInText7"><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">“They saw a game”</span></a><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">:</span> The quotes from the school newspapers are as they appeared in Hastorf and Cantril’s paper.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes"><a href="08_CHAPTER_2_Wanna_Bet_.xhtml#EndnotePhraseInText8"><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">Redefining confidence</span></a><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">:</span> When you express uncertainty to someone who knows about communicating that way, the mutual recognition is<a id="GBS.0219.03"/> like a light switch turning on. When I was early in the process of writing this book, I had lunch with Stuart Firestein. We had barely exchanged pleasantries when the waiter came to take our order. The waiter was not a native English speaker, and I have a lot of dietary restrictions that are difficult enough to communicate to someone who shares my first language. When the waiter walked away, I said,<a id="GBS.0219.04"/> “Well, that’s seventy-three percent.” Stuart started laughing, because he immediately knew what I meant. “I think it’s lower than that,” he said. “Maybe somewhere in the forties that he’s going to get your order right.” My declaration of uncertainty invited the discussion about whether my lunch order would be correct. That seems like a small thing, but when you express uncertainty in this way,<a id="GBS.0219.05"/> you will invite debate about more significant topics.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes-Head-A">CHAPTER 3: BET TO LEARN: FIELDING THE UNFOLDING FUTURE</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes"><a href="09_CHAPTER_3_Bet_to_Lear.xhtml#EndnotePhraseInText9"><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">Working backward is hard: the SnackWell’s Phenomenon</span></a><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">: </span>In discussing classical stimulus-response experiments, I’m referring to the legendary work by B. F. Skinner. The Selected Bibliography and Recommendations for Further Reading includes a citation to one of his principal experiments,<a id="GBS.0220.01"/> as well as to an article by psychologist Ogden Lindsley describing some of Skinner’s work.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes"><a href="09_CHAPTER_3_Bet_to_Lear.xhtml#EndnotePhraseInText10"><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">“If it weren’t for luck, I’d win every one”</span></a><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">:</span> The Institute for Advanced Study’s web page on John von Neumann’s legacy includes von Neumann’s quote about the trees passing him at 60 mph, and how one of them stepped into his path. William Poundstone, who told several von Neumann stories in <i>Prisoner’s Dilemma,</i><a id="GBS.0220.02"/> also mentioned JvN’s driving habits.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes-Para">There are several versions of transcripts and videos of the Iowa Republican presidential primary debate on January 28, 2016, such as Team Fix, “7th Republican Debate Transcript, Annotated: Who Said What <span xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_247" title="247"/>and What It Meant,” <i>Washington Post</i>, January 28, 2016, https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2016/01/28/7th-republican-debate-transcript-annotated-who-said-what-a<a id="GBS.0220.03"/>nd-what-it-meant.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes"><a href="09_CHAPTER_3_Bet_to_Lear.xhtml#EndnotePhraseInText11"><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">People watching</span></a><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">:</span> Yogi Berra has proven a fertile source for quotes on such a variety of subjects that it’s reasonable to wonder whether he actually said all the things attributed to him. Because he wrote a book using this astute observation as its title, I feel I’m on safe ground considering this an actual quote, or at least one Berra adopted as his own. Note the title of<a id="GBS.0220.04"/> Yogi’s 2008 book (written with Dave Kaplan): <i>You Can Observe a Lot by Watching: What I’ve Learned about Teamwork from the Yankees and Life</i>.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes-Para">Published information about the Bartman play and its aftermath is plentiful, and the game and the play are available on YouTube. The behavior of the fans at Wrigley Field and the quotes appear in Alex Gibney’s 2014 ESPN Films documentary, <i>Catching Hell</i>.</p><a id="GBS.0220.05"/>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes"><a href="09_CHAPTER_3_Bet_to_Lear.xhtml#EndnotePhraseInText12"><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">Other people’s outcomes reflect on us</span></a><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">:</span> For some of the places in which Dawkins has written about natural selection proceeding by competition among the phenotypes of genes, see <i>Current Problems in Sociobiology</i> and <i>The Greatest Show on Earth</i>, cited in the Selected Bibliography and Recommendations for Further Reading.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes-Para">For an examination of whether people would choose to earn $70,000 in 1900<a id="GBS.0221.01"/> or in 2010, see (and listen to) “Would You Rather Be Rich in 1900, or Middle-Class Now?,” NPR.org, October 12, 2010, http://www.npr.org/sections/money/2010/10/12/130512149/the-tuesday-podcast-would-you-rather-be-middle-class-now-or-rich-in-1900.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes"><a href="09_CHAPTER_3_Bet_to_Lear.xhtml#EndnotePhraseInText13"><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">Reshaping habit</span></a><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">:</span> Ivan Pavlov’s work is well known and summarized in every form of media. I included, in the Selected Bibliography and Recommendations<a id="GBS.0221.02"/> for Further Reading, one of countless possible ways to learn more about Pavlov’s ubiquitous experiments, a book by Daniel Todes titled <i>Pavlov’s Physiology Factory: Experiment, Interpretation, Laboratory Enterprise</i>.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes-Para">If you don’t watch golf on television, golf analyst and former PGA Tour pro John Maginnes described the “blame the green” stare in “Maginnes On Tap,” Golf.SwingBySwing.com, February<a id="GBS.0221.03"/> 13, 2013, http://golf.swingbyswing.com/article/maginnes-on-tapgolfers-in-hollywood. Phil Mickelson’s practice drill of making one hundred straight three-foot putts has been described by legendary golf teacher David Pelz, who has worked with Mickelson. “Dave Pelz and the 3 Foot Putting Circle,” GolfLife.com, June 13, 2016, http://www.golflife.com/dave-pelz-3-foot-putting-circle.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes-Head-A"><span xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_248" title="248"/>CHAPTER 4:<a id="GBS.0221.04"/> THE BUDDY SYSTEM</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes"><a href="10_CHAPTER_4_The_Buddy_S.xhtml#EndnotePhraseInText14"><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">“Maybe you’re the problem, do you think?”</span></a><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">: </span>You can see for yourself David Letterman’s uncomfortable interview of Lauren Conrad from the<i> Late Show</i> <i>with David Letterman</i> on October 27, 2008, on YouTube. The web response to the interview came from the following sources: Ryan Tate, “David Letterman to Lauren Conrad: ‘Maybe You’re the Problem,’” Gawker.com, October 28, 2008, http://gawker.com/5069<a id="GBS.0221.05"/>699/david-letterman-to-lauren-conrad-maybe-youre-the-problem; Ayman, “Lauren Conrad on David Letterman,” Trendhunter.com, October 30, 2008, https://www.trendhunter.com/trends/lauren-conrad-interview-david-letterman; and “Video: Letterman Makes Fun of Lauren Conrad &amp; ‘The Hills’ Cast,” Starpulse.com, October 29, 2008, http://www.starpulse.com/video-letterman-makes-fun-of-lauren-conrad-the-hills-cas<a id="GBS.0222.01"/>t-1847865350.html. (Warning: these websites may not still be operating or hosting their prior content.)</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes"><a href="10_CHAPTER_4_The_Buddy_S.xhtml#EndnotePhraseInText15"><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">Not all groups are created equal</span></a><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">:</span> My point in bringing up the group approach of Alcoholics Anonymous is to demonstrate the obvious value people can get in working on difficult habits by enlisting a group, illustrated in part by the story of founders Bill W. and Dr. Bob. My knowledge of the<a id="GBS.0222.02"/> details of AA is based on commonly available public sources. These start with AA’s website (aa.org), which includes the Big Book, the Twelve Steps, its archives and history, and its eLibrary.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes-Para">I first met Erik Seidel when I went off to New York for college. Howard was part of a study group of exceptional poker players in New York, including Erik Seidel, Dan Harrington, Steve Zolotow, and Jason<a id="GBS.0222.03"/> Lester. These players all went on to successful poker careers, including earning seven World Series of Poker bracelets and combined tournament earnings of nearly $18 million—that’s <i>excluding</i> Seidel’s eight bracelets and $32 million; it was a remarkable study pod. I met these players when I visited Howard at the Mayfair Club, where they played backgammon and then poker, the place where they all<a id="GBS.0222.04"/> grew up together as poker players.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes"><a href="10_CHAPTER_4_The_Buddy_S.xhtml#EndnotePhraseInText16"><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">The group ideally exposes us to a diversity of viewpoints</span></a><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">:</span> The Dissent Channel is codified in the Department of State’s Foreign Affairs Manual, 2 FAM 071-075.1, https://fam.state.gov/fam/02fam/02fam0070.html. Its history and origins were described in several news stories about uses of the Dissent Channel in the Obama and Trump administrations. See Joseph<a id="GBS.0222.05"/> Cassidy, “The Syria Dissent Channel Message Means the System Is Working,” <i>Foreign Policy</i>, June 19, 2016; Jeffrey Gettleman, “State Dept. Dissent Cable on Trump’s Ban Draws 1,000 Signatures,” <span xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_249" title="249"/><i>New York Times</i>, January 31, 2017; Stephen Goldsmith, “Why Dissenting Viewpoints Are Good for Efficiency,” <i>Government Technology</i>, July 26, 2016; Neal Katyal, “Washington Needs More Dissent Channels,” <i>New York<a id="GBS.0223.01"/> Times</i>, July 1, 2016; and Josh Rogin, “State Department Dissent Memo: ‘We Are Better Than This Ban’ ,” <i>Washington Post</i>, January 30, 2017. For a list of the four awards for constructive dissent, see “Constructive Dissent Awards,” AFSA.org, http://www.afsa.org/constructive-dissent-awards.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes-Para">The CIA’s acknowledgment of the red-team approach in the raid on Osama bin Laden was also mentioned in Neal<a id="GBS.0223.02"/> Katyal’s <i>New York Times</i> op-ed, above.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes"><a href="10_CHAPTER_4_The_Buddy_S.xhtml#EndnotePhraseInText17"><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">Federal judges: drift happens</span></a><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">:</span> The details of the growing homogeneity in the chambers of Supreme Court justices comes from Adam Liptak’s September 6, 2010, <i>New York Times</i> article, “A Sign of the Court’s Polarization: Choice of Clerks.” Justice Thomas’s hiring practices are described in the same article. The measure of his ideological distance from the<a id="GBS.0223.03"/> other justices can be found in Oliver Roeder’s January 30, 2017, FiveThirtyEight.com article, “How Trump’s Nominee Will Alter the Supreme Court.” Roeder’s article introduced me to the data from a paper Lee Epstein and colleagues wrote in the <i>Journal of Law, Economics, and Organization</i>. Justice Thomas’s remark about his hiring practices, including his adaptation of the famous line often attributed<a id="GBS.0223.04"/> to Mark Twain about teaching a pig to sing, has been widely reported, including in David Savage’s profile, “Clarence Thomas Is His Own Man,” in the <i>Los Angeles Times</i>, July 3, 2011.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes"><a href="10_CHAPTER_4_The_Buddy_S.xhtml#EndnotePhraseInText18"><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">Wanna bet (on science)?</span></a><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">:</span> Several studies about corporate prediction markets mention the companies studied or those known to be testing prediction markets. See Cowgill, Wolfers, and Zitzewitz, “Using Prediction Markets<a id="GBS.0223.05"/> to Track Information Flows.” Some studies also refer to some of the companies anonymously. For an example of a study doing both, see Cowgill and Zitzewitz, “Corporate Prediction Markets, Evidence from Google, Ford, and Firm X.” Both citations appear in the Selected Bibliography and Recommendations for Further Reading<i>.</i></p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes-Head-A">CHAPTER 5: DISSENT TO WIN</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes"><a href="11_CHAPTER_5_Dissent_to_.xhtml#EndnotePhraseInText19"><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">CUDOS to a magician</span></a><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">:</span> I wish I had the space<a id="GBS.0224.01"/> or the excuse to share more details from Robert K. Merton’s remarkable life. See the following stories celebrating his fascinating life: Jason Hollander, “Renowned Columbia Sociologist and National Medal of Science Winner Robert K. Merton Dies at 92,” <i>Columbia News</i>, February 25, 2003, http://www.columbia.edu/cu/news/03/02/robertKMerton.html; and Michael Kaufman, <span xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_250" title="250"/>“Robert K. Merton, Versatile Sociologist<a id="GBS.0224.02"/> and Father of the Focus Group, Dies at 92,” <i>New York Times</i>, February 24, 2003, http://www.nytimes.com/2003/02/24/nyregion/robert-k-merton-versatile-sociologist-and-father-of-the-focus-group-dies-at-92.html.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes"><a href="11_CHAPTER_5_Dissent_to_.xhtml#EndnotePhraseInText20"><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">Mertonian communism</span></a><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">: more is more:</span> For an account of John Madden’s attendance at Vince Lombardi’s eight-hour seminar on one play, see Dan Oswald’s <i>HR Hero</i> blog post, “Learn Important Lessons<a id="GBS.0224.03"/> from Lombardi’s Eight-Hour Session,” March 10, 2014. The documentary <i>Lombardi</i> was produced by NFL Films and HBO and initially appeared for broadcast on HBO on December 11, 2010.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes"><a href="11_CHAPTER_5_Dissent_to_.xhtml#EndnotePhraseInText21"><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">Communicating with the world beyond our group</span></a><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">:</span> “Yes, and . . .” is so fundamental to group improvisation that it might be easier to list improv texts that <i>don’t</i> start with this rule. If you don’t have any improv texts<a id="GBS.0224.04"/> handy, an excellent, practical description of “yes, and . . .” appears in Tina Fey’s autobiography, <i>Bossypants</i>.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes-Head-A">CHAPTER 6: ADVENTURES IN MENTAL TIME TRAVEL</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes"><a href="12_CHAPTER_6_Adventures_.xhtml#EndnotePhraseInText22"><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">Night Jerry</span></a><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">:</span> I learned a great deal about the neural pathways involved in imagining the future and remembering the past from a conversation with Joe Kable, psychology professor at Penn and primary investigator at the Kable Lab at the<a id="GBS.0224.05"/> university. One of Joe’s studies is cited in the Selected Bibliography and Recommendations for Further Reading, though you should consider it just an introduction to his body of work. In addition to his work, I recommend, as a good overview for readers trying to learn more about the subject, the <i>Neuron</i> paper by Schacter and colleagues, cited in the Selected Bibliography and Recommendations for<a id="GBS.0225.01"/> Further Reading.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes-Para">Our collective retirement-savings shortfall has been widely reported. For some excellent overviews of the behavioral issues involved in retirement planning and the size of the shortfall, see Dale Griffin, “Planning for the Future: On the Behavioral Economics of Living Longer,” Slate.com, August 2013, http://www.slate.com/articles/health_and_science/prudential/2013/08/_planning_for_the_future<a id="GBS.0225.02"/>_is_scary_but_why_is_that.html; Mary Josephs, “How to Solve America’s Retirement Savings Crisis,” <i>Forbes</i>, February 6, 2017, https://www.forbes.com/sites/maryjosephs/2017/02/06/how-to-solve-americas-retirement-savings-crisis/#163d6e9015ae; and Gillian White, “The Danger of Borrowing Money from Your Future Self,” <i>Atlantic</i>, April 21, 2015, https://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2015/04/the-danger-of-borrowing-<a id="GBS.0225.03"/>money-from-your-future-self/391077.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes-Para"><span xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_251" title="251"/>For a description of the Merrill Edge app, see Bank of America’s February 26, 2014, news release, “New Merrill Edge Mobile App Uses 3D Technology to Put Retirement Planning in Your Hands,” http://newsroom.bankofamerica.com/press-releases/consumer-banking/new-merrill-edge-mobile-app-uses-3d-technology-put-retirement-planni.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes"><a href="12_CHAPTER_6_Adventures_.xhtml#EndnotePhraseInText23"><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">A flat tire, the ticker, and a zoom lens</span></a><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase"><a id="GBS.0225.04"/>:</span> For an interview with Professor Howard, including his fascination with flat-tire stories, see his conversation with Somik Raha, “A Conversation with Professor Ron Howard: Waking Up,” Conversations.org, October 17, 2013.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes-Para">For an examination of Warren Buffett’s market prowess and Berkshire Hathaway’s stock performance over the last fifty years, see Andy Kiersz, “Here’s How Badly Warren Buffett<a id="GBS.0225.05"/> Has Beaten the Market,” <i>Business Insider</i>, February 26, 2016. The graph of Berkshire’s long-term price compared with the S&amp;P 500 was re-created from stock data from Yahoo! Finance and a study in <i>Financial Analysts Journal</i> by Meir Statman and Jonathan Scheid, “Buffett in Foresight and Hindsight.”</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes"><a href="12_CHAPTER_6_Adventures_.xhtml#page_197"><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">Tilt</span></a><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">:</span> A list of basic surfing terms can be found on http://www.surfing-waves.com/surf_talk.htm and<a id="GBS.0226.01"/> https://www.swimoutlet.com/guides/different-wave-types-for-surfing. For an overview of all the different kinds of nails, go to any hardware store, or see http://www.diynetwork.com/how-to/skills-and-know-how/tools/all-about-the-different-types-of-nails. The number of types of brain tumors was reported on http://braintumor.org/brain-tumor-information/understanding-brain-tumors/tumor-types.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes"><a href="12_CHAPTER_6_Adventures_.xhtml#EndnotePhraseInText25"><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">Reconnaissance: mapping the future</span></a><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase"><a id="GBS.0226.02"/>:</span> There are innumerable descriptions of the planning and execution of the D-Day invasion at Normandy, so you can look practically anywhere to see this monumental example of scenario planning in practice. One such introduction to the subject is an interview that appeared in the <i>Daily Beast</i> with naval historian Craig Symonds, in connection with the release of his 2014 book on the subject. See Marc<a id="GBS.0226.03"/> Wortman, “D-Day Historian Craig Symonds Talks about History’s Most Amazing Invasion,” TheDailyBeast.com, June 5, 2014, and, of course, Symonds’s book, <i>Neptune: Allied Invasion of Europe and the D-Day Landings</i>.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes-Para">Also, see Nate Silver, “14 Versions of Trump’s Presidency, from #MAGA to Impeachment,” FiveThirtyEight.com, February 3, 2017.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes"><a href="12_CHAPTER_6_Adventures_.xhtml#EndnotePhraseInText26"><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">Backcasting: working backward from a positive future</span></a><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">:</span><a id="GBS.0226.04"/> For stories describing Olmsted’s genius in the design of Central Park and his use of backcasting, see David Allan, “Backcasting to the Future,” CNN.com, <span xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_252" title="252"/>December 16, 2015, and Nathaniel Rich, “When Parks Were Radical,” <i>Atlantic</i>, September 2016, https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2016/09/better-than-nature/492716.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes"><a href="12_CHAPTER_6_Adventures_.xhtml#EndnotePhraseInText27"><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">Premortems: working backward from a negative future</span></a><span class="_3-BM-Endnote-Key-Phrase">:</span> In addition to<a id="GBS.0226.05"/> Gabriele Oettingen’s books and published work with her husband Peter Gollwitzer (see citations in the Selected Bibliography and Recommendations for Further Reading), I recommend that you look at her website based on an application of mental contrasting known by the acronym WOOP (Wish, Outcome, Obstacle, Plan), WoopMyLife.org. WOOP provides numerous practical ways to implement mental contrasting.</p><a id="GBS.0227.01"/>
		</div>
	<div style="display:none;"><a id="GBS.0227.02"/></div></body>
</html>