<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
	<head>
		<title>SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY AND RECOMMENDATIONS FOR FURTHER READING, Thinking in Bets</title>
		<link href="../css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<meta name="Adept.resource" value="urn:uuid:5d97e825-beca-146f-c939-a5f83268350e"/>
	</head>
	<body id="x9780735216365_EPUB-13"><div style="display:none;"><a id="GBS.0228.01"/></div>
		<div class="HT">
			<div class="left-border">
				<h1 class="x03-Chapter-Number" id="_idParaDest-80"><span xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_253" title="253"/>SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY AND RECOMMENDATIONS FOR FURTHER READING</h1>
			</div>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio-First">Allan, David. “Backcasting to the Future.” CNN.com, December 16, 2015. http://www.cnn.com/2015/10/22/health/backcasting-to-the-future.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Arbesman, Samuel. <i>The Half-Life of Facts: Why Everything We Know Has an Expiration Date</i>. New York: Current, 2012.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Ariely, Dan. <i>Predictably Irrational: The Hidden Forces That<a id="GBS.0228.02"/> Shape Our Decisions</i>. Rev. exp. ed. New York: Harper Collins, 2009.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Babcock, Linda, and George Loewenstein. “Explaining Bargaining Impasse: The Role of Self-Serving Biases.” <i>Journal of Economic Perspectives</i> 11, no. 1 (Winter 1997): 109–26.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Bailenson, Jeremy, and Laura Carstensen. “Connecting to the Future Self: Using Web-Based Virtual Reality to Increase Retirement Saving.” Stanford Freeman<a id="GBS.0228.03"/> Spogli Institute for International Studies, 2009–2011. http://fsi.stanford.edu/research/connecting_to_the_future_self_using_webbased_virtual_reality_to_increase_retirement_saving.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Baumeister, Roy, Jennifer Campbell, Joachim Krueger, and Kathleen Vohs. “Does High Self-Esteem Cause Better Performance, Interpersonal Success, Happiness, or Healthier Lifestyles?” <i>Psychological Science in the Public<a id="GBS.0228.04"/> Interest</i> 4, no. 1 (May 2003): 1–44.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Berra, Yogi, and David Kaplan. <i>You Can Observe a Lot by Watching: What I’ve Learned about Teamwork from the Yankees and Life</i>. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley, 2008.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Bi, Chongzeng, and Daphna Oyserman. “Left Behind or Moving Forward? Effects of Possible Selves and Strategies to Attain Them among Rural Chinese Children.” <i>Journal of Adolescence</i> 44 (2015): 245–58.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio"><a id="GBS.0228.05"/>Boston Public Library. “The 100 Most Influential Books of the Century.” TheGreatestBooks.org. http://thegreatestbooks.org/lists/42.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio"><span xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_254" title="254"/>Boyer, Pascal. “Evolutionary Economics of Mental Time Travel?” <i>Trends in Cognitive Sciences</i> 12, no. 6 (June 30, 2008): 219–24.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Brockman, John, ed. <i>Thinking: The New Science of Decision-Making, Problem-Solving, and Prediction</i>. New York: Harper Perennial, 2013.</p><a id="GBS.0229.01"/>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Bronowski, Jacob. <i>The Ascent of Man</i>. London: British Broadcasting Corporation, 1973.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Cabane, Olivia Fox. <i>The Charisma Myth: How Anyone Can Master the Art and Science of Personal Magnetism</i>. New York: Portfolio/Penguin, 2012.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Cabane, Olivia Fox, and Judah Pollack. <i>The Net and the Butterfly: The Art and Practice of Breakthrough Thinking</i>. New York: Portfolio/Penguin, 2017.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Cain, Susan.<a id="GBS.0229.02"/> <i>Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World That Can’t Stop Talking</i>. New York: Crown, 2012.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Camerer, Colin. “Neuroscience, Game Theory, Monkeys.” Filmed January 2013, posted on TED.com. https://www.ted.com/talks/colin_camerer_neuroscience_game_theory_monkeys#t-1912.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Campbell, W. Keith, and Constantine Sedikides. “Self-Threat Magnifies the Self-Serving Bias: A Meta-Analytic Integration.” <i><a id="GBS.0229.03"/>Review of General Psychology</i> 3, no. 1 (1999): 23–43.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Cassidy, Joseph. “The Syria Dissent Channel Message Means the System Is Working.” <i>Foreign Policy,</i> June 19, 2016. http://foreignpolicy.com/2016/06/19/syria-obama-assad-state-department.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Cavagnaro, Daniel, Gabriel Aranovich, Samuel McClure, Mark Pitt, and Jay Myung. “On the Functional Form of Temporal Discounting: An Optimized Adaptive<a id="GBS.0229.04"/> Test.” <i>Journal of Risk and Uncertainty</i> 52, no. 3 (June 2016): 233–54.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Chen, M. Keith, Venkat Vakshminarayanan, and Laurie Santos. “How Basic Are Behavioral Biases: Evidence from Capuchin Monkey Trading Behavior.” <i>Journal of Political Economy</i> 114, no. 3 (June 2006): 517–37.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Cherones, Tom, dir. <i>Seinfeld</i>. Season 5, Episode 3, “The Glasses.” Written by Larry David, Jerry Seinfeld, Tom Gammill,<a id="GBS.0229.05"/> and Max Pross. Aired September 30, 1993, on NBC.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Cialdini, Robert. <i>Influence: The Psychology of Persuasion</i>. Rev. ed. New York: HarperCollins, 2009.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Cowgill, Bo, Justin Wolfers, and Eric Zitzewitz. “Using Prediction Markets to Track Information Flows: Evidence from Google,” January 2009. http://users.nber.org/~jwolfers/papers/GooglePredictionMarketPaper.pdf.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Cowgill, Bo, and Eric Zitzewitz.<a id="GBS.0230.01"/> “Corporate Prediction Markets: Evidence from Google, Ford, and Firm X.” <i>Review of Economic Studies</i> 82, no. 4 (April 2, 2015): 1309–41.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Dalio, Ray. <i>Principles: Life and Work</i>. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2017.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio"><span xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_255" title="255"/>Dawkins, Richard. <i>The Greatest Show on Earth: The Evidence for Evolution</i>. New York: Free Press, 2010.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Dawkins, Richard, “Replicators and Vehicles.” In <i>Current Problems in Sociobiology</i><a id="GBS.0230.02"/>, edited by King’s College Sociobiology Group, 45–64. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1982.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Dawkins, Richard. <i>The Selfish Gene</i>. 40th anniv. ed. Oxford: Oxford Landmark Science, 2016. First published 1976 by Oxford University Press (Oxford).</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Ditto, Peter, Brittany Liu, Cory Clark, Sean Wojcik, Eric Chen, Rebecca Grady, and Joanne Zinger. “At Least Bias Is Bipartisan: A Meta-Analytic<a id="GBS.0230.03"/> Comparison of Partisan Bias in Liberals and Conservatives.” April 13, 2017. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2952510.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Dreber, Anna, Thomas Pfeiffer, Johan Almenberg, Siri Isaksson, Brad Wilson, Yiling Chen, Brian Nosek, and Magnus Johannesson. “Using Prediction Markets to Estimate the Reproducibility of Scientific Research.” <i>Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences</i> 112,<a id="GBS.0230.04"/> no. 50 (December 2015): 15343–47.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Duarte, Jose, Jarret Crawford, Charlotta Stern, Jonathan Haidt, Lee Jussim, and Philip Tetlock. “Political Diversity Will Improve Social Psychological Science.” <i>Behavioral and Brain Sciences</i> 38 (January 2015): 1–58.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Duhigg, Charles. <i>The Power of Habit: Why We Do What We Do in Life and Business.</i> Ed. with new afterword. New York: Random House, 2014.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio"><a id="GBS.0230.05"/>Duhigg, Charles. <i>Smarter Faster Better: The Secrets of Being Productive in Life and Business</i>. New York: Random House, 2016.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Dyson, George. <i>Turing’s Cathedral: The Origins of the Digital Universe</i>. New York: Pantheon, 2012.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Easterbook, Frank, Circuit Judge. <i>Jentz v. ConAgra Foods, Inc.,</i> 767 F.3d 688 (7th Cir. 2014).</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Ellenberg, Jordan. <i>How Not to Be Wrong: The Power of Mathematical Thinking</i><a id="GBS.0231.01"/>. New York: Penguin, 2014.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Epstein, Lee, Andrew Martin, Jeffrey Segal, and Chad Westerland. “The Judicial Common Space.” <i>Journal of Law, Economics, &amp; Organization</i> 23, no. 2 (May 2007): 303–25.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Ersner-Hershfield, Hal, G. Elliott Wimmer, and Brian Knutson. “Saving for the Future Self: Neural Measures of Future Self-Continuity Predict Temporal Discounting.” <i>Social Cognitive and Affective Neuroscience</i><a id="GBS.0231.02"/> 4, no. 1 (2009): 85–92.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Fey, Tina. <i>Bossypants</i>. New York: Reagan Arthur Books, 2011.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Feynman, Richard. “Cargo Cult Science.” <i>Engineering and Science</i> 37, no. 7 (June 1974): 10–13.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Feynman, Richard. <i>The Pleasure of Finding Things Out: The Best Short Works of Richard P. Feynman</i>. New York: Perseus Publishing, 1999.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio"><span xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_256" title="256"/>Firestein, Stuart. <i>Ignorance: How It Drives Science</i>. New York: Oxford<a id="GBS.0231.03"/> University Press, 2012.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Firestein, Stuart. “The Pursuit of Ignorance.” Filmed February 2013, posted on TED.com. https://www.ted.com/talks/stuart_firestein_the_pursuit_of_ignorance/transcript.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Fischhoff, Baruch. “Hindsight ≠ Foresight: The Effect of Outcome Knowledge on Judgment under Uncertainty.” <i>Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance</i> 1, no. 3 (August 1975):<a id="GBS.0231.04"/> 288–99.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Frederick, Shane, George Loewenstein, and Ted O’Donoghue. “Time Discounting and Time Preference: A Critical Review.” <i>Journal of Economic Literature</i> 40, no. 2 (June 2002): 351–401.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Gibney, Alex, dir. <i>Catching Hell</i>. Written by Alex Gibney, produced by Alison Ellwood, Libby Geist, and Matt McDonald. Aired on February 20, 2014, on ESPN. http://www.espn.com/video/clip?id=13883887.</p><a id="GBS.0231.05"/>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Gilbert, Daniel. “How Mental Systems Believe.” <i>American Psychologist </i>46, no. 2 (February 1991): 107–19.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Gilbert, Daniel. <i>Stumbling on Happiness</i>. New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 2006.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Gilbert, Daniel, Romin Tafarodi, and Patrick Malone. “You Can’t Not Believe Everything You Read.” <i>Journal of Personality and Social Psychology</i> 65, no. 2 (August 1993): 221–33.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Gino, Francesca. “What We Miss<a id="GBS.0232.01"/> When We Judge a Decision by the Outcome.” <i>Harvard Business Review</i>, September 2, 2016. https://hbr.org/2016/09/what-we-miss-when-we-judge-a-decision-by-the-outcome.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Gladwell, Malcolm. <i>Outliers: The Story of Success</i>. New York: Little, Brown, 2008.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Goldman, William. <i>Adventures in the Screen Trade: A Personal View of Hollywood and Screenwriting</i>. New York: Warner Books, 1983.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Goldman, William.<a id="GBS.0232.02"/> <i>The Princess Bride: S. Morgenstern’s Classic Tale of True Love and High Adventure—The Good Parts</i>. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 1973.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Goldsmith, Stephen. “Why Dissenting Viewpoints Are Good for Efficiency.” <i>Government Technology</i>, July 26, 2016. http://www.govtech.com/opinion/why-dissenting-viewpoints-are-good-for-efficiency.html.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Golman, Russell, David Hagmann, and George Loewenstein.<a id="GBS.0232.03"/> “Information Avoidance.” <i>Journal of Economic Literature</i> 55, no. 1 (March 2017): 96–135.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Haidt, Jonathan. <i>The Happiness Hypothesis: Finding Modern Truth in Ancient Wisdom</i>. New York: Basic Books, 2006.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Haidt, Jonathan. <i>The Righteous Mind: Why Good People are Divided by Politics and Religion</i>. New York: Pantheon Books, 2012.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Harford, Tim. “A Beautiful Theory.” <i>Forbes</i>, December 10, 2006.<a id="GBS.0232.04"/> http://www.forbes.com/2006/12/10/business-game-theory-tech-cx_th_games06_1212harford.html.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio"><span xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_257" title="257"/>Hastorf, Albert, and Hadley Cantril. “They Saw a Game: A Case Study.” <i>Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology</i> 49, no. 1 (January 1954): 129–34.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Haynes, Tara, Raymond Perry, Robert Stupnisky, and Lia Daniels. “A Review of Attributional Retraining Treatments: Fostering Engagement and Persistence<a id="GBS.0232.05"/> in Vulnerable College Students.” In <i>Higher Education: Handbook of Theory and Research </i>24, edited by John Smart, 227–72, Springer Netherlands, 2009.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Heider, Fritz. <i>The Psychology of Interpersonal Relations</i>. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Assocs., 1958.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Hershfield, Hal. “You Make Better Decisions If You ‘See’ Your Senior Self.” <i>Harvard Business Review</i>, June 2013, 30–31.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Hershfield,<a id="GBS.0233.01"/> Hal, Daniel Goldstein, William Sharpe, Jesse Fox, Leo Yeykelis, Laura Carstensen, and Jeremy Bailenson. “Increasing Saving Behavior Through Age-Progressed Renderings of the Future Self.” <i>Journal of Marketing Research</i> 48 (November 2011): S23–S37.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Holmes, Jamie. <i>Nonsense: The Power of Not Knowing</i>. New York: Crown, 2015.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Institute for Advanced Study. “John von Neumann’s Legacy.” https://www.ias.edu/people/v<a id="GBS.0233.02"/>onneumann/legacy.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Jiang, Wei, Hualin Wan, and Shan Zhao. “Reputation Concerns of Independent Directors: Evidence from Individual Director Voting.” <i>Review of Financial Studies</i> 29, no. 3 (December 2015): 655–96.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Johnson, Hollyn, and Colleen Seifert. “Sources of the Continued Influence Effect: When Misinformation in Memory Affects Later Inferences.” <i>Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning,<a id="GBS.0233.03"/> Memory, and Cognition</i> 20, no. 6 (November 1994): 1420–36.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Johnson-Laird, Philip. “Mental Models and Probabilistic Thinking.” <i>Cognition</i> 50, no. 1 (June 1994): 189–209.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Kable, Joseph, and Paul Glimcher. “The Neural Correlates of Subjective Value During Intertemporal Choice.” <i>Nature Neuroscience</i> 10, no. 12 (December 2007): 1625–33.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Kahan, Dan, David Hoffman, Donald Braman, Daniel Evans,<a id="GBS.0233.04"/> and Jeffrey Rachlinsky. “‘They Saw a Protest’: Cognitive Illiberalism and the Speech-Conduct Distinction.” <i>Stanford Law Review</i> 64 (2012): 851–906.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Kahan, Dan, Ellen Peters, Erica Dawson, and Paul Slovic. “Motivated Numeracy and Enlightened Self-Government.” <i>Behavioural Public Policy</i> 1, no. 1 (May 2017): 54–86.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Kahneman, Daniel. <i>Thinking, Fast and Slow</i>. New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux,<a id="GBS.0233.05"/> 2011.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Kahneman, Daniel, and Amos Tversky. “Prospect Theory: An Analysis of Decision Under Risk.” <i>Econometrica: Journal of the Econometric Society</i> 47, no. 2 (March 1979): 263–91.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Endnotes"><span xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_258" title="258"/>Katyal, Neil. “Washington Needs More Dissent Channels.” <i>New York Times</i>, July 1, 2016. https://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/02/opinion/washington-needs-more-dissent-channels.html.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Katz, David, and Stephanie Meller.<a id="GBS.0234.01"/> “Can We Say What Diet Is Best for Health?” <i>Annual Review of Public Health</i> 35 (March 2014): 83–103.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Kearns, Cristin, Laura Schmidt, and Stanton Glantz. “Sugar Industry and Coronary Heart Disease Research: A Historical Analysis of Internal Industry Documents.” <i>JAMA Internal Medicine</i> 176, no. 11 (November 1, 2016): 1680–85.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Kestemont, Jenny, Ning Ma, Kris Baetens, Nikki Clément, Frank Van<a id="GBS.0234.02"/> Overwalle, and Marie Vandekerckhove. “Neural Correlates of Attributing Causes to the Self, Another Person and the Situation.” <i>Social Cognitive and Affective Neuroscience</i> 10, no. 1 (March 2014): 114–21.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Kiersz, Andy. “Here’s How Badly Warren Buffett Has Beaten the Market.” <i>Business Insider</i>, February 26, 2016. http://www.businessinsider.com/warren-buffett-berkshire-hathaway-vs-sp-500-2016-2.</p><a id="GBS.0234.03"/>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Kirwan, C. Brock, Stefania Ashby, and Michelle Nash. “Remembering and Imagining Differentially Engage the Hippocampus: A Multivariate fMRI Investigation.” <i>Cognitive Neuroscience </i>5, no. 3–4 (October 2014): 177–85.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Klein, Gary. “Performing a Project Premortem.” <i>Harvard Business Review, </i>September 2007, 18–19.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Konnikova, Maria. <i>The Confidence Game: Why We Fall for It . . . Every Time</i>. New<a id="GBS.0234.04"/> York: Penguin, 2016.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Konnikova, Maria. <i>Mastermind: How to Think Like Sherlock Holmes</i>. New York: Penguin, 2013.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Kriss, Peter, George Loewenstein, Xianghong Wang, and Roberto Weber. “Behind the Veil of Ignorance: Self-Serving Bias in Climate Change Negotiations.” <i>Judgment and Decision Making</i> 6, no. 7 (October 2011): 602–15.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Krusemark, Elizabeth, W. Keith Campbell, and Brett Clementz.<a id="GBS.0234.05"/> “Attributions, Deception, and Event Related Potentials: An Investigation of the Self-Serving Bias.” <i>Psychophysiology </i>45, no. 4 (July 2008): 511–15.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Kuhn, Harold, Introduction to <i>Theory of Games and Economic Behavior</i>. 60th anniv. ed. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2004.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Kuhn, Manford. “The Reference Group Reconsidered.”<i> Sociological Quarterly</i> 5, no. 1 (January 1964): 5–19.</p><a id="GBS.0235.01"/>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Lederer, Richard. <i>Anguished English</i>. Rev. exp. upd. ed. Layton, UT: Wyrick &amp; Co., 2006. First published in 1987.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Leitch, Alexander. <i>A Princeton Companion</i>. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1978. http://etcweb.princeton.edu/CampusWWW/Companion/von_neumann_john.html.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio"><span xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_259" title="259"/>Leonard, Robert. “From Parlor Games to Social Science: Von Neumann, Morgenstern, and the Creation of Game Theory<a id="GBS.0235.02"/> 1928–1944.” <i>Journal of Economic Literature</i> 33 (June 1994): 730–61.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Lerner, Jennifer, and Philip Tetlock. “Accounting for the Effects of Accountability.” <i>Psychological Bulletin</i> 125, no. 2 (March 1999): 255–75.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Lerner, Jennifer, and Philip Tetlock. “Bridging Individual, Interpersonal, and Institutional Approaches to Judgment and Decision Making: The Impact of Accountability on Cognitive<a id="GBS.0235.03"/> Bias.” In <i>Emerging Perspectives on Judgment and Decision Research</i>, edited by Sandra Schneider and James Shanteau, 431–57. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2003.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Letterman, David. <i>The Late Show with David Letterman</i>. Season 16, Episode 30. Produced by Eric Stangel and Justin Stangel. Aired October 27, 2008, on CBS.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Levitin, Daniel. <i>A Field Guide to Lies: Critical Thinking in the Information<a id="GBS.0235.04"/> Age</i>. New York: Dutton, 2016.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Levitt, Steven, and Stephen Dubner. <i>Freakonomics: A Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything</i>. Rev. ed. New York: Harper Collins, 2006.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Libby, Robert, and Kristina Rennekamp. “Self-Serving Attribution Bias, Overconfidence, and the Issuance of Management Forecasts.” <i>Journal of Accounting Research</i> 50, no. 1 (March 2012): 197–231.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Lillard, Lee,<a id="GBS.0235.05"/> and Robert Willis. “Cognition and Wealth: The Importance of Probabilistic Thinking.” Unversity of Michigan Retirement Research Center, Working Paper WP 2001-007, 2001. https://deepblue.lib.umich.edu/bitstream/handle/2027.42/50613/wp007.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Lindsley, Ogden. “Precision Teaching’s Unique Legacy from B. F. Skinner.” <i>Journal of Behavioral Education</i> 1, no. 2 (June 1991): 253–66.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Liptak, Adam. “A<a id="GBS.0236.01"/> Sign of the Court’s Polarization: Choice of Clerks.” <i>New York Times</i>, Politics, September 6, 2010. http://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/07/us/politics/07clerks.html.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Loewenstein, George, Samuel Issacharoff, Colin Camerer, and Linda Babcock. “Self-Serving Assessments of Fairness and Pretrial Bargaining.” <i>Journal of Legal Studies </i>22, no. 1 (January 1993): 135–59.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Loewenstein, George, Daniel Read,<a id="GBS.0236.02"/> and Roy Baumeister, eds. <i>Time and Decision: Economic and Psychological Perspectives on Intertemporal Choice</i>. New York: Russell Sage Foundation, 2003.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Ludwig, David. “Lowering the Bar on the Low-Fat Diet.” <i>Journal of the American Medical Association</i> 316, no. 20 (November 22, 2016): 2087–88.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Lyubomirsky, Sonja. <i>The How of Happiness: A Scientific Approach to Getting the Life You Want</i>. New<a id="GBS.0236.03"/> York: Penguin, 2007.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">———<i>The Myths of Happiness: What Should Make You Happy, but Doesn’t, What Shouldn’t Make You Happy, but Does</i>. New York: Penguin, 2013.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio"><span xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_260" title="260"/>———“Why are Some People Happier Than Others? The Role of Cognitive and Motivational Processes in Well-Being.” <i>American Psychologist </i>56, no. 3 (March 2001): 239–49.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">MacCoun, Robert. “Blaming Others to a Fault?” <i>Chance</i> 6, no. 4 (September<a id="GBS.0236.04"/> 1993): 31–34.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">MacCoun, Robert, and Saul Perlmutter. “Blind Analysis as a Correction for Confirmatory Bias in Physics and in Psychology.” In <i>Psychological Science Under Scrutiny: Recent Challenges and Proposed Solutions</i>, edited by Scott Lilienfeld and Irwin Waldman, chap. 15. Oxford: Wiley Blackwell, 2017.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">———“Hide Results to Seek the Truth: More Fields Should, Like Particle Physics, Adopt<a id="GBS.0236.05"/> Blind Analysis to Thwart Bias.” <i>Nature </i>52 (October 8, 2015): 187–90.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Marcus, Gary. <i>Kluge: The Haphazard Evolution of the Human Mind</i>. Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 2008.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Marcus, Gary, and Ernest Davis. “Eight (No, Nine!) Problems with Big Data,”<i> New York Times</i>, April 6, 2014. https://www.nytimes.com/2014/04/07/opinion/eight-no-nine-problems-with-big-data.html.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Mauboussin, Michael. <i>The Success<a id="GBS.0237.01"/> Equation: Untangling Skill and Luck in Business, Sports, and Investing</i>. Boston: Harvard Business Review Press, 2012.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">McGandy, Robert, D. Mark Hegsted, and Fredrick Stare. “Dietary Fats, Carbohydrates and Atherosclerotic Vascular Disease.” <i>New England Journal of Medicine</i> 277, no. 4 (1967): 186–92, 245–47.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Merton, Robert K., “The Normative Structure of Science.” 1942. Reprinted in <i>The Sociology<a id="GBS.0237.02"/> of Science: Theoretical and Empirical Investigations, </i>edited by Norman Storer, 267–78. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1973.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Mezulis, Amy, Lyn Abramson, Janet Hyde, and Benjamin Hankin. “Is There a Universal Positivity Bias in Attributions? A Meta-Analytic Review of Individual, Developmental, and Cultural Differences in the Self-Serving Attributional Bias.” <i>Psychological Bulletin </i>130,<a id="GBS.0237.03"/> no. 5 (September 2004): 711–47.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Mill, John Stuart, <i>On Liberty</i>. London: Walter Scott Publishing, 1859. Released on Project Gutenberg, 2011. https://www.gutenberg.org/files/34901/34901-h/34901-h.htm.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Miller, Dale, and Michael Ross. “Self-Serving Biases in the Attribution of Causality: Fact or Fiction.” <i>Psychological Bulletin </i>82, no. 2 (March 1975): 213–25.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Mischel, Walter. <i>The Marshmallow<a id="GBS.0237.04"/> Test: Why Self Control Is the Engine of Success</i>. New York: Little, Brown, 2014.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Mitchell, Deborah, J. Edward Russo, and Nancy Pennington. “Back to the Future: Temporal Perspective in the Explanation of Events.” <i>Journal of Behavioral Decision Making </i>2, no. 1 (January 1989): 25–38.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio"><span xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_261" title="261"/>Morewedge, Carey, Lisa Shu, Daniel Gilbert, and Timothy Wilson. “Bad Riddance or Good Rubbish? Ownership and<a id="GBS.0237.05"/> Not Loss Aversion Causes the Endowment Effect.” <i>Journal of Experimental Social Psychology </i>45, no. 4 (July 2009): 947–51.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Mullally, Sinead, and Eleanor Maguire. “Memory, Imagination, and Predicting the Future: A Common Brain Mechanism?” <i>The Neuroscientist</i> 20, no. 3 (June 2014): 220–34.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Munnell, Alice, Wenliang Hou, and Anthony Webb. “NRRI Update Shows Half Still Falling Short.” <i>Center for<a id="GBS.0238.01"/> Retirement Research at Boston College</i>, no. 14–20, December 2014. http://crr.bc.edu/briefs/nrri-update-shows-half-still-falling-short.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Murray, Bridget. “What Makes Mental Time Travel Possible?” <i>APA Monitor on Psychology </i>34, no. 9 (October 2003): 62.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Myerson, Roger. <i>Game Theory: Analysis of Conflict</i>. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1991.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Neiss, Michelle, Constantine Sedikides,<a id="GBS.0238.02"/> and Jim Stevenson. “Self-Esteem: A Behavioural Genetic Perspective.” <i>European Journal of Personality </i>16, no. 5 (September 2002): 351–67.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Nisbett, Richard. <i>Mindware: Tools for Smart Thinking</i>. New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2015.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">NobelPrize.org. “Economic Sciences Laureates: Fields.” https://www.nobelprize.org/nobel_prizes/economic-sciences/fields.html.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Nyberg, Lars, Alice Kim,<a id="GBS.0238.03"/> Reza Habib, Brian Levine, and Endel Tulving. “Consciousness of Subjective Time in the Brain.” <i>Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences</i> 107, no. 51 (December 21, 2010): 22356–59.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Oettingen, Gabriele. <i>Rethinking Positive Thinking: Inside the New Science of Motivation</i>. New York: Current, 2014.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Oettingen, Gabriele, and Peter Gollwitzer. “Strategies of Setting and Implementing Goals.”<a id="GBS.0238.04"/> In <i>Social Psychological Foundations of Clinical Psychology</i>, edited by James Maddox and June Price Tangney, 114–35. New York: Guilford Press, 2010.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Open Science Collaboration. “Estimating the Reproducibility of Psychological Science.” <i>Science</i> 349, no. 6251 (August 28, 2015): 943 and aac4716-1–8.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Oswald, Dan. “Learn Important Lessons from Lombardi’s Eight-Hour Session.” <i>HR Hero</i> (blog), March<a id="GBS.0238.05"/> 10, 2014. http://blogs.hrhero.com/oswaldletters/2014/03/10/learn-important-lessons-from-lombardis-eight-hour-session.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Oyserman, Daphna, Deborah Bybee, Kathy Terry, and Tamara Hart-Johnson. “Possible Selves as Roadmaps.” <i>Journal of Research in Personality</i> 38, no. 2 (April 2004): 130–49.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio"><span xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_262" title="262"/>Oyserman, Daphna, Mesmin Destin, and Sheida Novin. “The Context-Sensitive Future Self: Possible Selves<a id="GBS.0239.01"/> Motivate in Context, Not Otherwise.” <i>Self and Identity</i> 14, no. 2 (March 2015): 173–88.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Pariser, Eli. <i>The Filter Bubble: What the Internet Is Hiding from You</i>. New York: Penguin, 2011.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Paulos, John. <i>Innumeracy: Mathematical Illiteracy and Its Consequences</i>. New York: Hill &amp; Wang, 1989.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Pollan, Michael. <i>In Defense of Food: An Eater’s Manifesto</i>. New York: Penguin, 2008.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Pollan, Michael,<a id="GBS.0239.02"/> “History of Nutritionism” in “Michael Pollan and ‘In Defense of Food: The Omnivore’s Solution,’” Otis Lecture at Bates College, Lewiston, Maine, October 27, 2008. http://www.bates.edu/food/foods-importance/omnivores-solution/history-of-nutritionism.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Pollan, Michael. <i>The Omnivore’s Dilemma: A Natural History in Four Meals</i>. New York: Penguin, 2006.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Poundstone, William. <i>Prisoner’s Dilemma</i><a id="GBS.0239.03"/>. New York: Anchor, 1993.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Raha, Somik. “A Conversation with Professor Ron Howard: Waking Up.” Conversations.org, October 17, 2013. http://www.conversations.org/story.php?sid=373.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Rees, Tim, David Ingledew, and Lew Hardy. “Attribution in Sport Psychology: Seeking Congruence Between Theory, Research and Practice.” <i>Psychology of Sport and Exercise</i> 6 (2005): 189–204.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Reiner, Rob, dir. <i><a id="GBS.0239.04"/>The Princess Bride</i>. Written by William Goldman, produced by Andrew Scheinman and Rob Reiner. 1987.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Rhee, Nari. “The Retirement Savings Crisis: Is It Worse Than We Think?” Washington, DC: National Institute on Retirement Security, June 2013. http://www.nirsonline.org/storage/nirs/documents/Retirement%20Savings%20Crisis/retirementsavingscrisis_final.pdf.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Rich, Nathaniel. “When Parks Were<a id="GBS.0239.05"/> Radical.” <i>Atlantic,</i> September 2016. https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2016/09/better-than-nature/492716.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Roeder, Oliver. “How Trump’s Nominee Will Alter the Supreme Court.” FiveThirtyEight.com, January 30, 2017. https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/how-trumps-nominee-will-alter-the-supreme-court.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Rosati, Alexandra, Jeffrey Stevens, Brian Hare, and Marc Hauser. “The Evolutionary<a id="GBS.0240.01"/> Origins of Human Patience: Temporal Preferences in Chimpanzees, Bonobos, and Human Adults.” <i>Current Biology</i> 17, no. 19 (October 2007): 1663–68.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Ross, H. Laurence. “Drinking and Driving: Beyond the Criminal Approach.” <i>Alcohol Health &amp; Research World</i> 14, no. 1 (January 1990): 58–63.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio"><span xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_263" title="263"/>Ross, Lee, and Richard Nisbett. <i>The Person and the Situation: Perspectives of Social Psychology</i>. New York:<a id="GBS.0240.02"/> McGraw-Hill, 1991; London: Pinter &amp; Martin, 2011.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Ross, Michael, and Fiore Sicoly. “Egocentric Biases in Availability and Attribution.” <i>Journal of Personality and Social Psychology</i> 37, no. 3 (March 1979): 322–36.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Santos, Laurie, and Alexandra Rosati. “The Evolutionary Roots of Human Decision Making.” <i>Annual Review of Psychology</i> 66 (January 2015): 321–47.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Savage, David. “Clarence Thomas<a id="GBS.0240.03"/> Is His Own Man.” <i>Los Angeles Times</i>, Nation, July 3, 2011. http://articles.latimes.com/2011/jul/03/nation/la-na-clarence-thomas-20110703/2.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Schacter, Daniel, Donna Addis, Demis Hassabis, Victoria Martin, R. Nathan Spreng, and Karl Szpunar. “The Future of Memory: Remembering, Imagining, and the Brain.” <i>Neuron</i> 76, no. 4 (November 21, 2012): 677–94.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Schessler-Jandreau, Imke. “Fat America:<a id="GBS.0240.04"/> A Historical Consideration of Diet and Weight Loss in the US.” <i>21st ICC 2008 </i>(2009): 88–93.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Schoemaker, Paul, and Philip Tetlock. “Superforecasting: How to Upgrade Your Company’s Judgment.” <i>Harvard Business Review</i>, May 2016, 72–78.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Sedikides, Constantine, W. Keith Campbell, Glenn Reeder, and Andrew Elliot. “The Self-Serving Bias in Relational Context.” <i>Journal of Personality and Social<a id="GBS.0240.05"/> Psychology</i> 74, no. 2 (February 1998): 378–86.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Sedikides, Constantine, John Skowronski, and Lowell Gaertner. “Self-Enhancement and Self-Protection Motivation: From the Laboratory to an Evolutionary Context.” <i>Journal of Cultural and Evolutionary Psychology</i> 2, no. 1–2 (August 2004): 61–79.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Shapiro, Ouisie, writer. <i>Lombardi</i>. Produced by Keith Cossrow and Joe Lavine for HBO Sports and NFL Films.<a id="GBS.0241.01"/> Aired December 11, 2010, on HBO. http://www.hbo.com/sports/lombardi.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Shepperd, James, Wendi Malone, and Kate Sweeny. “Exploring Causes of the Self-Serving Bias.” <i>Social and Personality Psychology Compass</i> 2, no. 2 (March 2008): 895–908.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Shermer, Michael. <i>The Believing Brain: From Ghosts and Gods to Politics and Conspiracies—How We Construct Beliefs and Reinforce Them as Truths</i>. New York:<a id="GBS.0241.02"/> Times Books, 2011.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Silver, Nate. “14 Versions of Trump’s Presidency, from #MAGA to Impeachment.” FiveThirtyEight.com, February 3, 2017. http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/14-versions-of-trumps-presidency-from-maga-to-impeachment.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Silver, Nate. <i>The Signal and the Noise: Why So Many Predictions Fail—But Some Don’t</i>. New York: Penguin, 2012.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Simmons, Joseph, Leif Nelson, and Uri Simonsohn.<a id="GBS.0241.03"/> “False-Positive Psychology: Undisclosed Flexibility in Data Collection and Analysis Allows <span xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_264" title="264"/>Presenting Anything as Significant.” <i>Psychological Science</i> 22, no. 11 (November 2011): 1359–66.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Sirois, Fuschia, and Timothy Pychyl. “Procrastination and the Priority of Short-Term Mood Regulation: Consequences for Future Self.” <i>Social and Personality Psychology Compass</i> 7, no. 2 (February 2013): 115–27.</p><a id="GBS.0241.04"/>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Skinner, B. F. “A Case History in Scientific Method.” <i>American Psychologist</i> 11, no. 5 (May 1956): 221–33.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Stanovich, Keith. <i>What Intelligence Tests Miss: The Psychology of Rational Thought</i>. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 2009.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Statman, Meir, and Jonathan Scheid. “Buffett in Foresight and Hindsight.” <i>Financial Analysts Journal</i> 58, no. 4 (July 2002): 11–18.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Stephan, Elena,<a id="GBS.0241.05"/> Constantine Sedikides, Daniel Heller, and Daniella Shidlovski. “My Fair Future Self: The Role of Temporal Distance and Self-Enhancement in Prediction.” <i>Social Cognition</i> 33, no. 2 (April 2015): 149–68.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Stevens, Jeffrey. “Evolutionary Pressures on Primate Intertemporal Choice.” <i>Proceedings of the Royal Society of London, Series B: Biological Sciences</i> 281, no. 1786 (July 7, 2014): 1–6.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Stroebele,<a id="GBS.0242.01"/> Nanette, John De Castro, Jennifer Stuht, Vicki Catenacci, Holly Wyatt, and James Hill. “A Small-Changes Approach Reduces Energy Intake in Free-Living Humans.” <i>Journal of the American College of Nutrition</i> 28, no. 1 (February 2009): 63–68.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Suddendorf, Thomas, and Janie Busby. “Making Decisions with the Future in Mind: Developmental and Comparative Identification of Mental Time Travel.” <i>Learning<a id="GBS.0242.02"/> and Motivation</i> 36, no. 2 (May 2005): 110–25.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Suddendorf, Thomas, and Michael Corballis. “The Evolution of Foresight: What Is Mental Time Travel, and Is It Unique to Humans?” <i>Behavioral and Brain Sciences</i> 30, no. 3 (June 2007): 299–351.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Sunstein, Cass, and Reid Hastie. <i>Wiser: Getting Beyond Groupthink to Make Groups Smarter</i>. Boston: Harvard Business Review Press, 2015.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Sunstein, Cass,<a id="GBS.0242.03"/> David Schkade, Lisa Ellman, and Andres Sawicki. <i>Are Judges Political? An Empirical Analysis of the Federal Judiciary</i>. Washington, DC: Brookings Institution Press, 2006.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Symonds, Craig. <i>Neptune: Allied Invasion of Europe and the D-Day Landings</i>. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2014.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Taleb, Nassim. <i>Fooled by Randomness: The Hidden Role of Chance in Life and in the Markets</i>. New York: Random<a id="GBS.0242.04"/> House, 2004.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Tetlock, Philip, and Dan Gardner. <i>Superforecasting: The Art and Science of Prediction</i>. New York: Crown, 2015.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Thaler, Richard. <i>Misbehaving: The Making of Behavioral Economics</i>. New York: W. W. Norton, 2015.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio"><span xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_265" title="265"/>———“Some Empirical Evidence on Dynamic Inconsistency.” <i>Economics Letters</i> 8, no. 3 (January 1981): 201–07.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Thaler, Richard, and Cass Sunstein. <i>Nudge: Improving Decisions<a id="GBS.0242.05"/> About Health, Wealth, and Happiness</i>. Upd. ed. New York: Penguin, 2009.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Todes, Daniel. <i>Pavlov’s Physiology Factory: Experiment, Interpretation, Laboratory Enterprise</i>. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 2002.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Tomlin, Damon, David Rand, Elliot Ludvig, and Jonathan Cohen. “The Evolution and Devolution of Cognitive Control: The Costs of Deliberation in a Competitive World.” <i>Scientific<a id="GBS.0243.01"/> Reports</i> 5 (June 16, 2015).</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Tversky, Amos, and Daniel Kahneman. “Loss Aversion in Riskless Choice: A Reference-Dependent Model.” <i>Quarterly Journal of Economics</i> 106, no. 4 (November 1991): 1039–61.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Von Neumann, John, and Oskar Morgenstern. <i>Theory of Games and Economic Behavior</i>. 60th anniv. ed. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1944, 2004.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Wachowski, Lana, and Wachowski, Lilly,<a id="GBS.0243.02"/> dirs. <i>The Matrix</i>. Written by Lana Wachowski and Lilly Wachowski, produced by Joel Silver. 1999.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Wagenaar, Alexander, and Susan Farrell. “Alcohol Beverage Control Policies: Their Role in Preventing Alcohol-Impaired Driving. In <i>Surgeon General’s Workshop on Drunk Driving: Background Papers,</i> 1989, 1–14.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Walsh, Jeffrey. “Operant Conditioning: Schedules of Reinforcement.” KhanAcademy.org. https://www.khanacad<a id="GBS.0243.03"/>emy.org/test-prep/mcat/behavior/learning-slug/v/operant-conditioning-schedules-of-reinforcement.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Wansink, Brian, and Jeffery Sobal. “Mindless Eating: The 200 Daily Food Decisions We Overlook.” <i>Environment and Behavior</i> 39, no. 1 (January 2006): 106–23.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Warner, John, and Saul Pleeter. “The Personal Discount Rate: Evidence from Military Downsizing Programs.” <i>American Economic Review</i> 91, no.<a id="GBS.0243.04"/> 1 (March 2001): 33–53.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">West, Richard, Russell Meserve, and Keith Stanovich. “Cognitive Sophistication Does Not Attenuate the Bias Blind Spot.” <i>Journal of Personality and Social Psychology</i> 103, no. 3 (September 2002): 506–19.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Welch, Suzy. <i>10-10-10: A Life-Transforming Idea</i>. New York: Scribner, 2009.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Wilson, Anne, Roger Buehler, Heather Lawford, Colin Schmidt, and An Gie Yong. “Basking<a id="GBS.0243.05"/> in Projected Glory: The Role of Subjective Temporal Distance in Future Self-Appraisal.” <i>European Journal of Social Psychology</i> 42, no. 3 (April 2012): 342–53.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Wilson, Timothy, and Patricia Linville. “Improving the Academic Performance of College Freshmen: Attribution Therapy Revisited.” <i>Journal of Personality and Social Psychology</i> 42, no. 2 (February 1982): 367–76.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio"><span xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_266" title="266"/>Woodward, Bob, and Scott<a id="GBS.0244.01"/> Armstrong. <i>The Brethren: Inside the Supreme Court</i>. Reissue ed. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2011.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Wortman, Marc. “D-Day Historian Craig Symonds Talks about History’s Most Amazing Invasion.” TheDailyBeast.com, June 5, 2014. http://www.thedailybeast.com/d-day-historian-craig-symonds-talks-about-historys-most-amazing-invasion.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Zemeckis, Robert, dir. <i>Back to the Future: Part II</i>. Written by<a id="GBS.0244.02"/> Robert Zemeckis and Bob Gale, produced by Neil Canton and Bob Gale. 1989.</p>
			<p class="x13-BM-Biblio">Zinberg, Michael, dir. <i>WKRP in Cincinnati</i>. Season 1, Episode 7, “Turkeys Away.” Written by Bill Dial. Aired October 30, 1978, on CBS.</p>
		</div>
	<div style="display:none;"><a id="GBS.0244.03"/></div></body>
</html>