<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
	<head>
		<title>Continued, Thinking in Bets</title>
		<link href="../css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<meta name="Adept.resource" value="urn:uuid:5d97e825-beca-146f-c939-a5f83268350e"/>
	</head>
	<body><div style="display:none;"><a id="GBS.0264.01"/></div>
		<div xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" class="footnote" epub:type="footnote" id="footnote_5" role="doc-footnote">
			<p class="xFootnote-text"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor" href="09_CHAPTER_3_Bet_to_Lear.xhtml#footnote-007-backlink">*</a> This is a systematic bias, not a guarantee that we <i>always</i> grab credit or <i>always</i> deflect blame. There are some people, to be sure, who exhibit the opposite of self-serving bias, treating everything bad that happens as their fault and attributing anything good in their lives to luck. That pattern is much rarer (and more likely in women). Several sources in the Selected Bibliography and Recommendations<a id="GBS.0264.02"/> for Further Reading describe these aspects of self-serving bias. James Shepperd and colleagues, in particular, surveyed the literature in <i>Social and Personality Psychology Compass</i> for the motivations and explanations behind self-serving bias. Their survey includes research on self-serving bias in women. In addition to being a potential symptom of depression, that pattern isn’t any better because<a id="GBS.0264.03"/> it is equally inaccurate. All bad things can’t be your fault and all good things can’t be due to luck, just as the reverse can’t be true. If we can’t find a way to value accuracy in fielding outcomes, we are going to throw away a lot of learning opportunities regardless of which kind of error we make.</p>
		</div>
	<div style="display:none;"><a id="GBS.0264.04"/></div></body>
</html>