<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
	<head>
		<title>Continued, Thinking in Bets</title>
		<link href="../css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<meta name="Adept.resource" value="urn:uuid:5d97e825-beca-146f-c939-a5f83268350e"/>
	</head>
	<body><div style="display:none;"><a id="GBS.0280.01"/></div>
		<div xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" class="footnote" epub:type="footnote" id="footnote_9" role="doc-footnote">
			<p class="xFootnote-text"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor" href="12_CHAPTER_6_Adventures_.xhtml#footnote-016-backlink">*</a> NFL teams have the advantage of advanced analytics, but a fan with basic knowledge of the game can plug in general probabilities. (These don’t include adjustment for New England’s defense or data specific to short-yardage situations.) If Wilson drops back to pass, he is about 8% to get sacked (significant loss of yardage, use of the final time-out), 55% to complete the pass (touchdown),<a id="GBS.0280.02"/> 35% to throw incomplete (stopping the clock for two additional plays, which can include an unsuccessful running play because of the remaining time-out), and 2% to throw an interception.</p>
			<p class="xFootnote-text-Para">If Wilson hands off to Marshawn Lynch, he either gains a yard and scores, is stopped short of the goal, or fumbles. Lynch fumbles 1%–2% of the time. After that, advanced analytics are necessary (and may be<a id="GBS.0280.03"/> based on small samples). But we can guess. On fourth-down running plays (presumably short-yardage situations), in 13 career attempts he has 2 touchdowns and 7 first downs. For his career, at the time of this writing, on third- or fourth-and-short rushing plays, he has 121 attempts, 11 touchdowns, and 70 first downs.</p>
		</div>
	<div style="display:none;"><a id="GBS.0280.04"/></div></body>
</html>