<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title/>
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:4ded8a26-02ff-4e89-a5a1-281d03d347b1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>

<body>
  <div class="chap" id="ch9">
    <p class="cn">Chapter 9</p>

    <h1 id="heading_id_2">Accepting Imperfection</h1>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_3">The Costs of Control</h2>

    <p class="paft">Napoleon Hill, the American author of the bestselling book, <em>Think and Grow Rich</em>, was quoted as saying, “Self-discipline begins with the mastery of your thoughts. If you don’t control what you think, you can’t control what you do” (1937). In <em>The Picture of Dorian Gray,</em> Irish playwright and author Oscar Wilde had a similar view, “I don’t want to be at the mercy of my emotions. I want to use them, to enjoy them, and to dominate them (Wilde 2005).” Is it, in fact, true that we need to be in control of our thoughts and emotions? Well, it’s certainly true that extreme thoughts and emotions can make life difficult. But is fighting to control your thoughts and feelings the answer?</p>

    <p>In some ways, perfectionism reflects an extreme need for control. Perfectionists often strive to control the emotions, thoughts, behaviors, performances, and appearance of themselves and others. However, it’s impossible to have control over all aspects of your life. Furthermore, your attempts to have complete control either haven’t worked or have come with an unreasonably high cost (for example, impaired relationships), which is why you’re reading this book. Sometimes, it is not until we give up our attempts to control our experiences that we actually start to feel more in control.</p>

    <p>That is not to say that all attempts to control your behavior or experiences are a problem. Control-oriented strategies are useful when used in moderation. For example, saying no to that fourth piece of cake, going to bed at a reasonable hour when you have to be up early the next day, or taking time to study the week before a big exam are all examples of control-oriented strategies that are potentially helpful. However, there comes a point at which attempts to control your thoughts and feelings begins to make things worse. Efforts to control experiences are a problem when they are extreme, intense, overly rigid, or ineffective. If you are constantly trying to control your own thoughts and feelings, as well as the behavior of others, and your attempts are not working, don’t take it as a sign to simply try harder. Rather, it may be a sign that it’s time to give up some of your efforts at having complete control over your experiences.</p>

    <p>Many of the problematic perfectionistic behaviors discussed in chapter 4 are really just attempts to increase control over your emotions. Examples of these control-oriented behaviors (and a couple of others) include:</p>

    <ul>
      <li class="ulf">Avoiding feared people, situations, places, activities, thoughts, and emotions</li>

      <li class="ul">Escaping from feared situations</li>

      <li class="ul">Overcompensating</li>

      <li class="ul">Checking and reassurance seeking</li>

      <li class="ul">Repeating and correcting</li>

      <li class="ul">Excessive organizing and list making</li>

      <li class="ul">Putting off decisions</li>

      <li class="ull">Distracting yourself from uncomfortable feelings</li>
    </ul>

    <p>Take a look through chapter 4 again if you need a reminder of what these behaviors refer to. Though these strategies help to reduce discomfort in the short term, they also maintain your discomfort in the long term. As long as you continue to use the same strategies that you always use, you will continue to have the same results—anxiety, discomfort, depression, anger, and any other feelings that go along with your perfectionism.</p>

    <p>We reviewed many of the strategies for reducing these control-oriented behaviors in earlier chapters. In chapter 7, you learned to observe your thoughts from a distance and to view them as just thoughts (rather than facts). You also learned to challenge your thoughts and to consider alternative ways of viewing things. While, on the surface, this process may seem like attempts to control your thoughts, the cognitive strategies in chapter 7 are actually designed to help you think more flexibly and to consider a wide range of possible interpretations. Many of these strategies are designed to help you accept negative outcomes, rather than assuming they would be unmanageable. Similarly, in chapter 8 you learned strategies for reducing control-oriented behaviors. Rather than avoiding situations that make you feel uncomfortable, we encouraged you to confront situations that make you feel uncomfortable, including purposely doing things imperfectly.</p>

    <p>In the remainder of this chapter, we discuss some additional strategies that are helpful for fostering an attitude of acceptance, as opposed to control. These approaches are not really alternatives to the strategies discussed earlier in the book. Rather, they should be thought of as complementary techniques to use alongside the others. In addition, space does not allow for a full consideration of these strategies. Indeed, entire books have been written on these approaches. Rather, we provide you with an overview and suggest that you do further reading if you want to learn more about these approaches.</p>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_4">New Acceptance-Based Treatments</h2>

    <p class="paft">In recent years, a number of new treatments have been developed that teach people to accept their negative feelings and experiences, rather than trying to change them. For example, psychologist Jon Kabat-Zinn has promoted the use of a meditation-based treatment called <em>mindfulness-based stress reduction</em> for dealing with chronic pain, stress, anxiety, and other negative experiences (Kabat-Zinn 1990, 1994). This treatment involves learning to be aware of your thoughts and feelings, rather than constantly trying to change them or distract yourself from them. Instead of dwelling on the past or worrying about the future, people are encouraged to focus on their present experience, or the “here and now.” A related treatment approach is <em>acceptance and commitment therapy</em> (ACT), a treatment developed by psychologist Steven Hayes and his colleagues Kirk Strosahl and Kelly Wilson (Hayes, Strosahl, and Wilson 1999). In this treatment, people are taught to accept their thoughts, feelings, and other experiences and to make a commitment to changing behaviors so that they are acting in ways that are consistent with what matters most to them.</p>

    <p>In this chapter, we provide an overview of mindfulness and acceptance-based approaches, including mindfulness-based stress reduction and ACT. Mindfulness-based treatments and ACT have been adapted for use with a wide range of problems associated with perfectionism, including eating disorders (Heffner and Eifert 2004), anxiety problems (Forsyth and Eifert 2007), depression (Williams et al. 2007), and anger (Eifert, McKay, and Forsyth 2005). In addition, although the research on these treatments is relatively new, preliminary studies suggest that these approaches are useful for preventing relapse in depression (Teasdale et al. 2000), for reducing anxiety (Dalrymple and Herbert 2007; Roemer and Orsillo 2007), and for improving various other problems (Hayes, Follette, and Linehan 2004).</p>

    <p class="bh">Mindfulness</p>

    <p>You may assume that meditation and other mindfulness-based strategies are necessarily weird, “new age,” spiritual, or religious in nature. In fact, mindfulness is not necessarily about spirituality or about getting in touch with a higher power, and there is nothing weird or strange about it. Rather, mindfulness is simply a specific kind of attending. Kabat-Zinn (1994, 4) defines mindfulness as “paying attention, in a particular way: on purpose, in the present moment, nonjudgmentally.” Bishop et al. recently proposed a similar definition in which two components were highlighted: (1) awareness of one’s immediate experience in the present moment, and (2) allowing one’s attention to be accepting, non-judging, and compassionate (2004). Although mindfulness meditation can be traced back 2,500 years, to the earliest forms of Buddhist philosophy, it has recently been adapted for use in mainstream modern life. There is nothing about mindfulness that requires people to give up or change their spiritual beliefs, values, or anything else. However, mindfulness may help people to reduce stress and manage negative feelings of anxiety and depression that are often associated with perfectionism.</p>

    <p>Mindfulness is difficult to describe in a single chapter, let alone a brief section of a chapter like this. If you are interested in additional general information about this approach, the books cited earlier by Kabat-Zinn are a good place to start. Kabat-Zinn has also produced several excellent audio CD programs to guide you through mindfulness practices (see <a href="http://www.mindfulnesscds.com">www.mindfulnesscds.com</a>). Finally, you may be able to access mindfulness classes near where you live. Some of these classes may have a more spiritual focus than others, so you may want to shop around until you find a class that is comfortable for you.</p>

    <p class="ch">Becoming More Mindful</p>

    <p>As we go through our day, most of us spend much of our time on “automatic pilot,” doing things in an almost mechanical way and not really taking the time to experience fully what we are doing. For example, when you eat dinner, you may worry about all the work that you need to do after dinner or daydream about a future vacation, rather than allowing yourself to experience your food. At the same time, many of our experiences are associated with evaluation and judgment. Pay attention to your normal stream of consciousness and you will find that you are continually evaluating and judging yourself, other people, and your experiences. For example, you may think you are too fat or too thin, or that the room is too hot or too cold, or that the movie you are watching is exciting or boring. Many of the perfectionistic beliefs that you identified in chapter 3 are also examples of evaluative or judgmental thoughts. On the one hand, it is completely normal to judge and evaluate your experiences. On the other hand, excessive judging and evaluating can feed your perfectionism and lead to high levels of anxiety, depression, and anger.</p>

    <p>Normally, we go through life without paying much attention to our most basic experiences and activities, including eating, breathing, and moving. Mindfulness practices are designed to help people to be more aware of their experiences. There are many different exercises that can help to facilitate mindfulness. All of these exercises are designed to help us to slow down, focus our attention, and experience life in a nonjudging, accepting and nonstriving way. The term <em>nonjudging</em> refers to experiencing without evaluating. For example, if you start to feel anxious during practice and notice yourself thinking, “I shouldn’t be feeling nervous right now—I need to fight this feeling,” try to shift toward a less judgmental stance (for example, “I am feeling nervous right now. I will simply let myself feel whatever I am feeling”). <em>Acceptance</em> refers to letting whatever happens happen. Nothing specific needs to happen during a mindfulness session. You’re not supposed to think any specific thoughts, and you aren’t supposed to feel any specific feelings. As with the cognitive strategies described in chapter 7, the process of mindfulness encourages you to view your thoughts as just thoughts (rather than facts). If you notice a negative thought, accept it as just a thought and let it go. The same thing applies with uncomfortable feelings. Notice them and accept them for what they are. <em>Nonstriving</em> during mindfulness practices means that you should not be <em>trying</em> to achieve anything in particular—not even a state of mindfulness! If you say to yourself, “I must reach a state of mindfulness during this practice,” it will undermine the whole process. If you notice your attention wandering, simply be aware of your experiences and gently bring your focus back to the exercise. However, the more preoccupied you are with the need to be mindful, the less mindful you will actually become.</p>

    <p>Here are brief descriptions for three different mindfulness exercises. All three of these examples are described in more detail in the book, <em>Ending the Depression Cycle</em> (Bieling and Antony 2003), as well as in other sources:</p>

    <p class="paft"><strong>Raisin exercise</strong>. In this exercise, you are to eat a raisin slowly and mindfully, without judging the experience. This is often the first practice that people try when learning mindfulness. This exercise is described in more detail below, and we encourage you to try it out for yourself (see exercise 9.1).</p>

    <p class="paft"><strong>Mindful breathing</strong>. There are a number of mindfulness exercises that focus on breathing. An example of a simple mindful-breathing exercise is to sit in a comfortable, quiet location and focus on a particular area of the body that is involved in breathing, such as the nostrils or the diaphragm (this is, the muscle located beneath the ribs that is used to fill your lungs with air). In this exercise, you simply focus on your breathing for a period of time. You can start with a brief period, like five minutes. With practice, you can gradually increase the period, if you choose. People often eventually work up to practicing for twenty to thirty minutes at a time, or longer.</p>

    <p class="paft"><strong>Body-scan exercise</strong>. The purpose of the body scan is to become more aware of feelings and sensations in your body. Many people have ambivalent relationships with their bodies. You may like aspects of your body and hate other aspects. You may be frustrated with being overweight, think your nose is too big, hate sweating, or suffer with various aches and pains. The body-scan exercise provides an opportunity to be aware of your body without judging. Essentially, this exercise involves focusing on more than twenty parts of your body (toes on the right foot, left thigh, chest, top of head, and so on) one part at a time, while also paying attention to your breathing and maintaining an accepting, nonjudging attitude.</p>

    <p class="exh">Exercise 9.1 The Raisin Exercise</p>

    <p class="paft">This popular exercise (described briefly above) is often used to introduce people to the process of mindfulness. The exercise requires a few raisins, about a half hour of your time, and a quiet place to sit where you are unlikely to be interrupted. If you can’t bear to eat raisins, you can use another food (for example, almonds). The goal of this exercise is to eat a raisin mindfully. First, imagine that you have just arrived on Earth from another planet and have never eaten a raisin before. In fact, imagine you don’t even know that the object is called a raisin.</p>

    <p>Next, with an object sitting on a table in front of you, focus your attention on it. What does it look like? Notice the color, size, and texture. Does it have a particular fragrance? What does it smell like? Next, spend a couple of minutes with the object in your hand. What does it feel like? Is it hard or soft? What does the texture feel like on your hand? In all likelihood, you will notice things about the object that you have never noticed before. That is the point of the exercise.</p>

    <p>Next, press the object against your lips, but don’t put it in your mouth just yet. How does the object feel against your lips? Is the scent different than it was when you smelled it earlier, from a distance? Do you notice any changes in how you are feeling? Is your mouth watering? Are you anticipating eating the object? Now, place the object in your mouth, but don’t chew it just yet. What does the texture feel like in your mouth? Can you still smell the object? What does it taste like? Do you notice more saliva in your mouth than before? Next, slowly begin to chew the object. How does the flavor change? Is it more intense? Is it sweet, sour, or both? As you chew, be aware of your experiences. You will soon feel the urge to swallow the object, but put off swallowing until after you have been chewing for a few minutes. Just be aware of the experience of chewing the object. After you finally swallow the object, pay attention to any sensations in your mouth and throat, as well as any aftertaste.</p>

    <p>Continue this practice with a few additional raisins. When you are done, take a moment to think about the way you normally eat raisins and how the experience of eating raisins mindfully was different than your usual experience. Record your responses to the following questions in your journal. Do you love raisins and normally eat them by the handful? Do you hate raisins and prefer to avoid them? Do you normally snack on them while watching television or working at your computer? Was the experience of eating raisins mindfully different than your previous experience with raisins? What did you learn about raisins or about yourself through this exercise? Were you able to eat the raisins without judging them or without judging the experience? Was the experience the same with each raisin, or did it change over time?</p>

    <p>What does eating raisins mindfully have to do with overcoming perfectionism? On the surface, not much. However, exercises like this one can help you to live more in the present moment and encourage you to keep your experiences in perspective, rather than getting caught up in the past or focused on future events over which you have little control. Mindfulness can help you feel more grounded, which in turn can help you deal with day-to-day stresses that arise. If this approach is something you would like to learn more about, check out some of the resources recommended in this chapter, and in Further Readings in the back of this book.</p>

    <p class="bh">Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT)</p>

    <p>As we reviewed earlier, there are two main components to ACT. The first involves learning to accept your thoughts, feelings, and other experiences rather than fighting them or attempting to control them. The second component involves becoming aware of your own values and starting to make life decisions based on these core values, rather than based on your perfectionism and desire to avoid the negative emotions that result from always trying to be perfect.</p>

    <p class="ch">Accepting Your Experiences</p>

    <p>Mindfulness is one approach to achieving a level of acceptance of the thoughts, feelings, and other experiences that currently contribute to your discomfort and distress. However, there are other approaches as well. ACT teaches people to stop struggling against their negative thoughts and feelings; rather, the goal is to accept them. In addition to using mindfulness exercises, this approach also uses stories and metaphors to make key points. Consider the following story as an example:</p>

    <p class="sth">What Avoiding Pain Cost the Emperor Moth</p>

    <p class="stf">A man found a cocoon of an emperor moth. He took it home so that he could watch the moth come out of the cocoon.</p>

    <p class="st">On the day, a small opening appeared. He sat and watched the moth for several hours, just watching as the moth struggled to force its body through that little hole. Then it seemed to stop making any progress. It appeared to have gotten as far as it could. It just seemed stuck.</p>

    <p class="st">Then the man, in his kindness, decided to help the moth. So he took a pair of scissors and snipped off the remaining bit of the cocoon. The moth then emerged easily, but it had a swollen body and small shrivelled wings. The man continued to watch. He expected that, at any moment, the wings would enlarge and open out to be able to support the body. Neither happened! The little moth spent the rest of its life crawling around with a swollen body and shrivelled wings. It never was able to fly.</p>

    <p class="stl">What the man, in his kindness and haste, didn’t understand was this: in order for the moth to fly, it needed to experience the restricting cocoon and the painful struggle as it emerged through the tiny opening. This was a necessary part of a process to force fluid from the body and into the wings so that the moth would be ready for flight once it achieved freedom from the cocoon. Freedom and flight would only come after allowing painful struggle. By depriving the moth of struggle, the man deprived the moth of health.</p>

    <p class="paft">Reprinted with permission from Forsyth, J. P. and G. H. Eifert, 2007.</p>

    <p>This story makes the point that avoiding discomfort and pain in the short term can lead to problems later on. It teaches us that sometimes a struggle is necessary to move forward. Though you may be inclined to do everything you can to avoid the discomfort you experience when your standards are not met, it’s possible that allowing yourself to feel discomfort may be more helpful to you over the long term. However, that is not to say that suffering and discomfort should be your goal. From an acceptance perspective, it can be useful to avoid judging your feelings (such as discomfort) in either a positive direction or negative direction. Acceptance doesn’t mean seeing suffering as something noble. Discomfort, in and of itself, is neither a terrible thing to be avoided nor something necessarily to be sought out. Rather, discomfort and suffering are just experiences that arise as a result of being human, and sometimes avoiding discomfort makes sense (for example, taking an alternate route when traffic is backed up on the highway).</p>

    <p>The Emperor Moth story is just one example of many different stories and metaphors that are used in ACT to help individuals learn that avoiding discomfort and trying to control one’s emotions and thoughts are not always the best option over the long term.</p>

    <p class="ch">Making a Commitment to Change</p>

    <p>The second component of ACT involves thinking about what really matters to you and making a commitment to change your behaviors so they are more consistent with your most deeply held personal values. One strategy for identifying your core values is to think about how you want to be remembered after you’re gone. Although it can be uncomfortable to think about, death is something that we will all face eventually. Thinking about how you are likely to be remembered after you die versus how you would like to be remembered can be a useful exercise. There is a good chance that you will discover that at least some of your behaviors are inconsistent with how you want to be remembered or with the values you see as most important in life.</p>

    <p class="exh">Exercise 9.2 Writing Your Epitaph</p>

    <p class="paft">This exercise is based on a practice described by Forsyth and Eifert (2007). Your task is to write your own epitaph (the inscription on your gravestone). However, we would like you to write two versions of your epitaph. The first is your <em>perfectionist epitaph</em>—perhaps one that would be written about you if you were to die today. Here is an example of such an epitaph for Tom, a man who always strove to be perfect:</p>

    <p class="ch">Tom’s Perfectionist Epitaph</p>

    <p><em>Here Lies Tom—A Man who Sought Perfection at All Costs</em></p>

    <p>Tom’s goal in life was to do everything as perfectly as possible and to make sure that others also lived up to his high standards. He spent much of his life correcting the behavior of his friends, family, and coworkers. Although his two marriages both ended in painful divorce and his children found him difficult to be around, Tom could take comfort in the fact that he did everything he could to help others think about things in the same way he did. Tom was also very devoted to his job in retail management. He put in many long hours and never settled for anything less than perfection in his work or the work of his staff. He always checked and double checked everything to make sure there were no errors. For Tom, work always came before vacations, spending time with friends and family, exercising, and eating well. His goal was to make the world a more perfect place, though he left this earth feeling alone and unfulfilled.</p>

    <p>The second epitaph should be your <em>valued-life epitaph</em>—a version that might be written if your perfectionism was no longer a problem and you were living your life according to the core values that are most important to you. Your valued-life epitaph should be the one that you would most like to see on your headstone. In your journal, write your perfectionism epitaph, followed by your valued-life epitaph. How are they different? Are you currently living your life in a way that is consistent with how you want to be remembered? If not, what must you change in order to live more consistently with your core values?</p>

    <p>The epitaph practice is just one example of an exercise that can help you to identify your personal values. As you work on changing your perfectionism, notice the ways in which your behaviors are inconsistent with your core values and begin to make changes. If you are working at a job that you hate, why not start looking for a new job this week? If you have been meaning to call an old friend, why not do it today? If it is important to you to become more physically fit, start eating healthier and exercising regularly.</p>

    <p>It is helpful to think about values as a process rather than a goal. For example, if you are single and want to be in an intimate relationship, behaving according to your values doesn’t mean focusing all of your energy on meeting a new life partner. Rather, it means acting in accordance with your values on a day-to-day basis, across situations. For example, you might think about what it is about being in this kind of relationship this is important to you (for example, it may be the opportunity to open up to someone, to allow yourself to be vulnerable, to express love and care, and so on) and make an effort to live according to these values with the people who are in your life now. Even saying hello and smiling at someone else on an elevator might be a step toward beginning to act in accordance with these values.</p>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_5">Acceptance and Perfectionism</h2>

    <p class="paft">In summary, acceptance-based strategies for perfectionism have two goals. The first is to become more accepting of your own thoughts, feelings, and experiences, as well as becoming more accepting of others. The second is to begin to recognize that although your perfectionism may tell you that things need to be a certain way, there are many situations in which you have a choice about how to behave. You can choose to behave in a way that is consistent with your most deeply held core values, or you can continue to behave like a perfectionist. Now is as good a time as any to start living the life you want to be living.</p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>