<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title/>
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:4ded8a26-02ff-4e89-a5a1-281d03d347b1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>

<body>
  <div class="chap" id="ch15">
    <p class="cn">Chapter 15</p>

    <h1 id="heading_id_2">Perfectionism, Dieting, and Body Image</h1>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_3">Dieting and Body Image Concerns in Western Culture</h2>

    <p class="paft">Anyone influenced by Western culture is likely aware that they live in a society that is preoccupied with appearance. Thin is in, and people go to great lengths to attain the thin beauty ideal. This culture equates thinness with beauty, and furthermore, associates thinness with all sorts of positive character traits. The most common way to gain control over one’s physical appearance is through dieting. Dieting is a multibillion dollar industry in the United States. According to some estimates, the American public spends more on diet-related products (books, videos, pills, and so on) than the government spends on education, employment, and social services combined (Brownell and Rodin 1994). Dieting can also put people at risk for developing certain problems, including eating disorders.</p>

    <p>The drive to be thin appears to be a socio-cultural phenomenon. Variables such as a person’s culture and the period in which he or she grew up have an enormous impact on the way they view body shape and dieting. It has been estimated that 39 percent of women and 21 percent of men in the United States are dieting at any one time (Hill 2002). These numbers are considerably higher than the 7 percent of men and 14 percent of women who described themselves as dieters in the year 1950 (Brownell and Rodin 1994).</p>

    <p>The prevalence of eating disorders has also increased dramatically over the past few decades. In addition, cultural differences appear to affect the incidence of eating disorders as well. One study assessed the prevalence of eating disorders among Egyptian women studying in Cairo universities and Egyptian women studying in British universities (Nasser 1986). Whereas 12 percent of the women studying in England met criteria for an eating disorder, there were no instances of eating disorders among women in the Egyptian universities. Not surprisingly, there is evidence that the prevalence of eating disorders is increasing in non-Western countries, as their economies become more industrialized and their people become more influenced by Western cultures. In fact, a recent study of women living in Tanzania found that the incidence of eating disorders was directly related to the degree of exposure to Western culture and media (Eddy, Hennessey, and Thompson-Brenner 2007). In addition, a study of people from the Old Order Amish community, who live in the United States but are separated from Western industrial society, found that young Amish did not have the same body image problems as young people in Western industrial society (Platte, Zelten, and Stunkard 2000).</p>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_4">Perfectionism and the Drive to Be Thin</h2>

    <p class="paft">People who diet restrict their food intake not only in the hopes of losing weight, but also in order to avoid becoming fat. As much as thinness is viewed as a positive trait in our culture, fatness is viewed as negative and is associated with all sorts of negative character traits. From a young age, children tend to discriminate against overweight children, and this carries into adulthood, where overweight people suffer from prejudices in many areas of life.</p>

    <p>These societal standards encourage perfectionism. This perfectionism is often carried out in the way that people eat. Many people engage in black-and-white thinking when they think about food. They consider some foods forbidden (like cookies and ice cream) and others ­permissible (like salads and fruits). We often hear people remark that they have “been good today” if they have adhered to their diets and consider themselves “failures” if they have eaten some of those forbidden foods. In effect, this perfectionistic style of thinking sets people up for difficulties with eating, and perfectionism is often associated with body image problems and eating disorders (Bardone-Cone et al. 2007)</p>

    <p>Psychologists Peter Herman and Janet Polivy devised a boundary model of eating that explains how dieters (people who restrict their food intake in order to prevent weight gain) and nondieters (people who do not engage in such behaviors) eat (1984). Nondieters, on a simple level, eat when they feel hungry and stop when they are full. In other words, satiety (fullness) acts as a boundary, or a “stop-eating” mechanism. Dieters, on the other hand, have set up for themselves a diet boundary. Dieters decide that if they eat a certain amount, they have maintained their diets, but if they eat more than that amount, they have broken their diets. Usually, the diet boundary acts as a stop-eating mechanism, but if the diet is broken, dieters will eat lots of food, often until they are overly full. Herman and Polivy have called this the “what the hell” effect—once the diet is broken, dieters think that they may as well eat with abandon, usually indulging in foods that are considered forbidden.</p>

    <p>Biological factors also play a role in causing dieters to break their diets. An important factor in why dieters fail to stay on their diets is the body’s powerful drive to meet its basic energy needs. By definition, dieters chronically take in less energy (food) than the body requires to meet its energy needs—with the goal of lowering the overall body weight. The body’s natural defense against starvation is to overeat, having endured severe caloric restriction.</p>

    <p>A great deal of self-control is required to fight the body’s natural drive to feed itself. There are many factors that can undermine this self-control, including experiencing social pressure to eat fattening food, drinking alcohol, and feeling depressed. Dieters also tend to engage in overeating when they feel anxious, particularly when they are made to feel bad about themselves. Researchers have suggested that overeating serves as a way of escaping self-awareness (Polivy and Herman 1993). It is less distressing to focus on food (how it tastes, smells, and so on) than to focus on feeling bad about oneself. However, this strategy is helpful only in the short term. After overeating, dieters tend to feel guilty and even worse about themselves than before they started eating. The failure to maintain the self-control required in dieting and the bad feelings that result from this failure can precipitate episodes of overeating and further bad feelings. Therefore, dieters get caught in a vicious cycle.</p>

    <p>In general, dieters are more perfectionistic than nondieters. As we already mentioned, dieters set up a beauty ideal for themselves that they would like to attain. Often, this ideal is unrealistic and based on what they see in the media. Dieters also set up unrealistic standards for eating, often restricting their intake to dangerously low levels. As mentioned earlier, the body’s natural defense against starvation is to overeat. For example, in one study conducted by a researcher named Keys, a group of healthy men (with no previous issues around eating or body weight) were put on a severely restricted diet (Keys et al. 1950). Interestingly, these men ended up having episodes of overeating after having endured severe caloric restriction. In addition, the men in this study became preoccupied with food. Their conversations and daydreams often revolved around eating, food, and related topics.</p>

    <p>Although a tendency to be overly concerned with body shape can affect anyone, women are especially prone to having unrealistic standards regarding weight (Cohn and Adler 1992). In one study, Killen and colleagues found that one-third of tenth grade girls believed they were overweight, even when they were not (1986).</p>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_5">Perfectionistic Thoughts Related to Eating and Weight</h2>

    <p class="paft">Researchers have consistently shown that a person’s beliefs about dieting and weight have an enormous impact on eating-related problems, including tendencies to be underweight; engage in binge eating; or engage in various purging behaviors such as self-induced vomiting, laxative abuse, and excessive exercise. Following is a list of perfectionistic thoughts that contribute to concerns about eating and weight. As you read the list, pay attention to particular beliefs that you hold:</p>

    <ul>
      <li class="ulf">Some foods are forbidden; some are permissible.</li>

      <li class="ul">If I eat a forbidden food, I have messed up my diet.</li>

      <li class="ul">If I eat a bit of a forbidden food, I may as well eat tons of it, since I already broke my diet.</li>

      <li class="ul">If I eat a forbidden food, I’ll get fat.</li>

      <li class="ul">If I start to eat, I’ll lose control.</li>

      <li class="ul">I can never be too thin.</li>

      <li class="ul">I feel fat, therefore I <em>am</em> fat.</li>

      <li class="ul">If my clothes are too small, it’s because I am fat.</li>

      <li class="ul">I have to exercise (purge, take laxatives, and so on) after eating, or I’ll get fat.</li>

      <li class="ul">You can’t get anywhere in this world if you’re fat.</li>

      <li class="ul">I’ll never find a boyfriend/girlfriend (or a job, friends, and so on) unless I’m thin.</li>

      <li class="ul">I’ll only be special and unique if I’m thin.</li>

      <li class="ul">If I gain a few pounds, I’ll keep going until I’m obese.</li>

      <li class="ull">I have to look like ___________ (model, actress, and so on).</li>
    </ul>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_6">Perfectionism and Other Concerns About Your Physical Appearance</h2>

    <p class="paft">Although weight and body shape are among the most common sources of body dissatisfaction, people are often unhappy with other aspects of their physical appearance. You may believe that the curve of your nose is unattractive or that your balding head is a turnoff to other people. In fact, people’s tendency to be displeased with the way they look helps to fund an entire industry of plastic surgeons, as well as manufacturers of cosmetics and other products designed to help people look their “best.” Being unhappy with your physical appearance is often caused by setting unnecessarily high standards regarding how you <em>should</em> look, despite the fact that other people are typically much less critical of your appearance than you might think. Following are some physical features that tend to be a source of dissatisfaction for some people:</p>

    <ul>
      <li class="ulf">Receding hairline or baldness</li>

      <li class="ul">Too much hair (on face, chest, back, arms, and so on)</li>

      <li class="ul">Unhappy with hair type (for example, curly versus straight hair)</li>

      <li class="ul">Wrinkles, graying hair, sagging facial features, and other signs of aging</li>

      <li class="ul">Being too short or too tall</li>

      <li class="ul">Body parts that are too big or too small (for example, nose, ears, breasts)</li>

      <li class="ul">Poor complexion</li>

      <li class="ul">Unhappy with face (for example, double chin, small cheekbones, asymmetrical face)</li>

      <li class="ul">Unhappy with other body parts (for example, feet, hands, legs)</li>

      <li class="ull">Unhappy with other physical features (for example, voice, body odors, posture)</li>
    </ul>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_7">Perfectionistic Behaviors that Contribute to Body-Image Problems</h2>

    <p class="paft">Almost everyone likes to look their best. Because it feels good to be complimented on one’s physical appearance, most people try to look good. However, people who are overly concerned about their physical appearance tend to rely too often on strategies for improving or masking perceived physical flaws. In addition, they tend to engage in behaviors that maintain their unrealistic standards by preventing them from disproving their perfectionistic beliefs. Chapter 4 describes various behaviors that contribute to perfectionism.</p>

    <p>Following is a list of behaviors that are particularly relevant to body-image problems. Most people engage in these behaviors from time to time. However, if you have particularly strong beliefs about the importance of your physical appearance, you may be using these behaviors excessively, to the point that they are costing you in terms of their financial impact (cosmetics, salon services, and cosmetic surgery are expensive), the time they take up (spending several hours a day trying to look perfect doesn’t leave much time for other things), their potential threat to your health (being underweight can be dangerous), or their impact on your emotional well-being (for example, withdrawing socially leads to a reduction in the number of pleasurable activities you experience). Some examples of perfectionistic behaviors linked to body image include:</p>

    <ul>
      <li class="ulf">Frequent checking and measuring (for example, looking in the mirror, weighing self)</li>

      <li class="ul">Excessive grooming (constantly fixing hair, fussing with blemishes)</li>

      <li class="ul">Wearing clothes that are too small (this can maintain the belief that you are overweight, even if you’re not)</li>

      <li class="ul">Hiding body parts that you believe are unappealing (for example, wearing large clothes to hide your figure, long pants to hide your legs, a hat to hide a balding head, and so on)</li>

      <li class="ul">Avoiding contact with other people (for fear of rejection because of your appearance)</li>

      <li class="ul">Excessive weight-loss behaviors (such as dieting, exercise, purging, diet pills, and so on)</li>

      <li class="ul">Cosmetic surgery</li>

      <li class="ul">Excessive use of cosmetic products and services (like makeup, hair dye, frequent expensive haircuts, electrolysis, tanning salons)</li>

      <li class="ul">Reading and information seeking (for example, reading fashion and beauty magazines)</li>

      <li class="ull">Comparing your appearance to that of other people</li>
    </ul>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_8">Psychological Problems Associated with a Distorted Body Image</h2>

    <p class="paft">A number of psychological disorders are associated with distorted attitudes and perceptions regarding body shape and physical appearance. These include the eating disorders anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa, as well as body dysmorphic disorder, which is a condition associated with body-image problems unrelated to eating and weight.</p>

    <p class="bh">Anorexia Nervosa</p>

    <p><em>Anorexia nervosa</em> is diagnosed when a person refuses to maintain a weight that is at least 85 percent of that expected for the individual’s height and age (American Psychiatric Association 2000). In addition, people with this condition have an intense fear of becoming fat, even though they are actually underweight. Individuals with anorexia nervosa also have distorted beliefs regarding their body shape, including denial that they are underweight or a tendency for their self-esteem to be almost entirely tied to their weight. To be diagnosed with this disorder, women must have stopped menstruating for at least three months, which is an indicator of starvation. At very low weights, the female body is unable to produce the hormones necessary for menstruation. Of course, this criterion does not apply to males, who make up about 10 percent of the people who suffer from anorexia nervosa (Weltzin et al. 2005).</p>

    <p>The most serious problems associated with anorexia nervosa involve complications associated with being severely underweight. These include low blood pressure, lowered levels of potassium and sodium, heart problems, low iron, decreased bone mass, hormonal changes, hair loss, brittle fingernails, dry skin, and in some cases, death. In fact, complications of anorexia nervosa were responsible for the deaths of musician Karen Carpenter and gymnast Christy Henrich, among others. In addition, anorexia nervosa is often associated with other psychological problems, such as depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and substance abuse.</p>

    <p class="ch">Treatment of Anorexia Nervosa</p>

    <p>Although findings from treatment studies have been mixed, most experts believe that medications are relatively ineffective for treating anorexia nervosa. Instead, nonmedical treatments are typically used (Wilson and Fairburn 2007). The first stage of treatment involves helping the person to gain weight. If the person is severely underweight, this stage may occur on an inpatient basis so that possible medical complications can be managed.</p>

    <p>Weight gain is achieved by structuring all food intake and ensuring that the person eats regular meals and snacks. Helping the patient gain weight is often relatively easy, especially if the person’s meals are supervised. Ensuring that the person does not relapse is more difficult. Unless the individual learns to change his or her beliefs about eating and body shape, it is unlikely that the weight will be maintained. Typically, the second stage of treatment involves cognitive behavioral therapy (to change attitudes and problem behaviors) and sometimes family therapy (to improve patterns of family communication that may contribute to the problem).</p>

    <p class="bh">Bulimia Nervosa</p>

    <p>Bulimia nervosa is associated with frequent binge eating combined with behaviors designed to keep weight under control (for example, self-induced vomiting, laxative use, exercise, fasting, diet pills). Binge eating involves eating a very large amount of food in a relatively short period of time, along with a perceived lack of control over eating during the binge. In some cases, a binge can include more food than the average person eats in an entire day. In bulimia nervosa, the binge eating and associated purging behaviors must occur at least twice per week for a period of three months or more. In addition, the person’s self-evaluation is tied to body shape and weight (American Psychiatric Association 2000).</p>

    <p>People with bulimia nervosa tend to be embarrassed about their episodes of bingeing and purging and go to great trouble to prevent others from finding out about their problem. In addition, bulimia is often associated with other problems including depression, anxiety disorders, substance abuse, and various medical complications (such as ­electrolyte imbalances, dental problems, gastrointestinal problems, and so on) related to binge eating and purging.</p>

    <p class="ch">Medications for Bulimia</p>

    <p>Treatment with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) such as fluoxetine (Prozac) appears to be helpful for decreasing binge eating, purging, and depression among people suffering from bulimia nervosa. Other types of antidepressants, including tricyclic antidepressants and monoamine oxidase inhibitors, also have been shown to be effective for treating the symptoms of bulimia (Wilson and Fairburn 2007).</p>

    <p>However, there are several reasons to consider a psychological approach before trying medication for this problem. First, studies comparing treatments involving medication to psychological approaches such as cognitive behavioral therapy have generally shown better outcomes with the psychological treatments or a combination of medication and therapy (Whittal, Agras, and Gould 1999). Second, patients tend to drop out of medication treatments more often than cognitive behavioral therapy. Finally, the relapse rates tend to be higher when bulimic patients stop taking their medications, compared to when they stop cognitive behavioral therapy. For more information on antidepressant medications, see chapter 10.</p>

    <p class="ch">Psychological Treatments for Bulimia</p>

    <p>A number of studies have demonstrated that cognitive behavioral therapy is an effective treatment for bulimia (Wilson and Fairburn 2007). This approach includes educating people about the consequences of restricting their food intake, binge eating, and purging. In addition, patients are taught to set goals to gradually develop healthy eating habits and to challenge their perfectionistic and inaccurate attitudes regarding body image, weight, dieting, and eating. Finally, people are helped to recognize the situations, emotions, and thoughts that trigger their urges to restrict, binge, or purge, and they are encouraged to develop healthier coping skills.</p>

    <p>Another psychological treatment that may be effective for treating bulimia is called interpersonal psychotherapy (IPT). This approach (described in chapter 10) focuses on helping people find new ways to manage the ways in which they deal with their relationships with other people (Wilson and Fairburn 2007).</p>

    <p class="bh">Body Dysmorphic Disorder</p>

    <p>Body dysmorphic disorder is a preoccupation with a perceived defect in one’s appearance. Sometimes the defect is completely imagined, and other times the perception may be based on a small anomaly (for example, a larger than average nose, a barely noticeable scar, and so on), but the person’s preoccupation is very much out of proportion to the nature of the actual defect or body feature. The concern about the perceived defect is bothersome or interferes significantly with the person’s ability to function at work, in social situations, or in other important life domains (American Psychiatric Association 2000).</p>

    <p>The areas that are most commonly a focus of concern among people with body dysmorphic disorder include various parts of the face and head (for example, hair, nose, eyes, lips), as well as other body parts (such as the waist, legs, breasts, buttocks, or penis). Most people with this problem feel as if more than one area of their body is defective, and some individuals are dissatisfied with their entire body. Although many people with this disorder seek cosmetic surgery to correct the imagined defect, they are often unhappy with the results of the surgery or with the surgeon’s advice not to have an operation.</p>

    <p class="ch">Treatment of Body Dysmorphic Disorder</p>

    <p>Researchers have only recently begun to examine medication treatments for body dysmorphic disorder. Preliminary findings from several studies suggest that the SSRI antidepressants are effective for treating this condition (Phillips and Hollander 2008). The SSRIs include fluoxetine (Prozac), fluvoxamine (Luvox), sertraline (Zoloft), paroxetine (Paxil), citalopram (Celexa), and escitalopram (Lexapro, Cipralex). These medications are discussed in more detail in earlier chapters on depression (chapter 10) and obsessive-compulsive behavior (chapter 14).Several studies suggest that cognitive behavioral therapy may also be helpful for people suffering from body dysmorphic disorder (Williams, Hadjistavropoulos, and Sharpe 2006). Cognitive strategies are used to teach the individual to identify unrealistic and distorted beliefs about the perceived defect and learn to replace distorted beliefs with a more realistic view. Behavioral strategies such as exposure and response prevention encourage the person to confront anxiety-provoking situations (for example, socializing with other people) without engaging in various behaviors to hide the perceived physical defect. The patient is also encouraged to stop other compulsive rituals such as checking mirrors, asking for reassurance, and making comparisons to other people.</p>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_9">Overcoming Perfectionistic Thinking and Behavior in Body-Image Problems</h2>

    <p class="paft">Chapters 7 through 9 describe a number of strategies that are helpful for changing perfectionistic beliefs and behaviors. In this section, we highlight several of these techniques, as well as a few other ideas for dealing with perfectionism in the context of problems related to being overly concerned with your physical appearance.</p>

    <p class="bh">Education</p>

    <p>Education is an important tool for combating distorted beliefs about dieting, body image, and related topics. Unfortunately, there is a lot of bad information out there. The media constantly presents a distorted view of the ideal body shape. Magazines, television, and movies often suggest new diet and exercise plans, show off underweight models and celebrities, and generally send out the message that it is extremely important to be thin and attractive. To combat this potentially harmful message, it’s important that you check out the facts regarding diet, exercise, weight, and health.</p>

    <p>For example, there is growing evidence that, to a large extent, body weight is determined by genetics. With healthy eating and moderate physical activity, your body will naturally find its genetically preferred weight. Research increasingly suggests that a healthy lifestyle (especially fitness), rather than body weight, is one of the best predictors of health. Furthermore, the belief that one should control one’s weight is associated with more disturbed eating, body dissatisfaction, and poor self-esteem compared to having the belief that one should live a healthy lifestyle (Laliberte et al. 2007).</p>

    <p class="bh">Challenging Perfectionistic Beliefs</p>

    <p>Rather than assuming that your perfectionistic beliefs are true, it is important to test the validity of your beliefs by examining the evidence. The following therapy vignette illustrates some of the questions that you might ask yourself in order to become more accepting of your physical appearance. In this example, Adam is taught to challenge his perfectionistic beliefs about what it means to be balding:</p>

    <p class="diaf">Therapist: How much time do you spend thinking about that fact that you are balding?</p>

    <p class="dia">Adam: It’s on my mind all the time. I haven’t dated in about three years, mostly because I’m afraid of having someone discover my bald head. I wear a toupee, but I still worry that it might fall off sometime. If I could afford a hair transplant, I would do it in a second.</p>

    <p class="dia">Therapist: Do you recall how you came to be so unhappy about being bald?</p>

    <p class="dia">Adam: I’ve always hated it. I’m only thirty-five! I should have more hair than I do. I think baldness is unattractive. I think other people find it unattractive as well.</p>

    <p class="dia">Therapist: Do you have any evidence that other people find baldness unattractive?</p>

    <p class="dia">Adam: Before I started wearing the toupee, a few people made comments about my thinning hair. Also, I constantly hear jokes about bald people. For example, on Seinfeld, people are always making fun of the fact that the George Costanza character is bald.</p>

    <p class="dia">Therapist: Have you ever teased someone about some physical characteristic?</p>

    <p class="dia">Adam: I used to make fun of my brother because he’s shorter than me. But now that I’ve lost my hair, I don’t make fun of anyone about anything.</p>

    <p class="dia">Therapist: Did the fact that you teased your brother mean that shorter people are unattractive?</p>

    <p class="dia">Adam: I know that some women prefer men who are taller, but I think there are lots of people who couldn’t care less.</p>

    <p class="dia">Therapist: Turning our attention back to Seinfeld, is George’s balding head the only thing that was ever made fun of on the show?</p>

    <p class="dia">Adam: No. In fact, that show makes fun of everything and everyone.</p>

    <p class="dia">Therapist: So, it’s possible to be teased about almost any physical feature. What does that say about your earlier statement that you knew that your baldness was unattractive because you were teased?</p>

    <p class="dia">Adam: I guess that just because I was teased doesn’t mean that it’s ugly.</p>

    <p class="dia">Therapist: Can you think of any evidence that baldness is attractive?</p>

    <p class="dia">Adam: Well, there are a number of bald celebrities that I know many people find attractive. People like Bruce Willis, Sean Connery, and Patrick Stewart. Also, lots of people shave their heads. I guess that means that they find baldness attractive.</p>

    <p class="dia">Therapist: What if someone did find you unattractive because you were bald? Would that mean that everyone would find you unattractive?</p>

    <p class="dial">Adam: I suppose not. Different people like different things.</p>

    <p class="bh">Changing Social-Comparison Habits</p>

    <p>Perfectionism often leads to the habit of comparing oneself to other people who are seen as better in particular dimensions. For example, if you are overly concerned about being overweight (even though you are at a healthy weight), you may tend to compare yourself to people who are underweight. Or, you may compare your current weight to your weight in the past, at a time when you were strictly dieting and therefore likely below your natural, healthy weight. These types of comparisons serve to maintain your perfectionistic thoughts. If you are overly concerned about your weight, you need only consider the body type you may have inherited from your family (collect information about your parents and extended family—what did they weigh at your age, and what were their eating and exercise habits at the time?). You might also try to determine what your own adult weight has been at times in your life when you were eating a healthy diet and exercising moderately.</p>

    <p>Finally, instead of focusing on people whose body type is different than yours (although perhaps what you consider to be more ideal), try to see what is attractive in people whose body type is closer to your own. Comparisons with extremely thin people (such as models) are what lead many women to try dieting. For most women, this means fighting your natural body type. Not surprisingly, 95 to 98 percent of dieters regain the weight they lose within five years. In the meantime, many struggle with binge eating and feelings of failure. Learning to evaluate your lifestyle rather than your weight and learning to compare yourself to those of your body type are extremely important steps in changing unrealistic, perfectionistic thoughts and attitudes about your body.</p>

    <p>Similarly, if you are dissatisfied with the size of your nose, it is not helpful to compare yourself to people with smaller noses. If your nose is larger than average, you will find that most people have smaller noses, but that will tell you very little about <em>your</em> physical attractiveness. Remember, half of the people you encounter each day also have noses that are bigger than average. It doesn’t necessarily mean that you are unattractive. In fact, most people are different than the average person in one feature or another. If you must compare yourself to other people, don’t just make comparisons based on your physical features that bother you.</p>

    <p class="bh">Hypothesis Testing and Exposure</p>

    <p>One of the most powerful ways of testing perfectionistic thoughts about your physical appearance is to create small experiments that are likely to disprove your beliefs. For example, if you are fearful that other people won’t be attracted to you if you are wearing shorts, try wearing shorts when you are out with other people and see what happens. Chances are that people will treat you no differently than when you’re wearing long pants.</p>

    <p>If the thought of having other people see some aspect of your physical appearance is terrifying, exposure practices may be helpful. Exposure (described fully in chapter 8) involves entering a feared situation repeatedly for an extended period, until the situation no longer produces anxiety. To deal with distorted perceptions regarding some aspect of your body, practices may include allowing people to see the “defective” feature. For example, practices may involve taking off your hat to expose your bald head or not wearing makeup in order to expose a mole or scar. You may want to start by making a list of avoided situations, rank-ordering them, and trying them out gradually.</p>

    <p class="bh">Preventing Safety Behaviors</p>

    <p>Preventing safety behaviors involves stopping the behaviors that you rely on to reduce your anxiety about your physical appearance. Following are examples of how this strategy can be used for various problems related to distorted body image:</p>

    <ul>
      <li class="ulf">Avoid weighing yourself more than once per month.</li>

      <li class="ul">Do not look in the mirror except when getting ready for work in the morning.</li>

      <li class="ul">Comb your hair no more than twice per day.</li>

      <li class="ul">Do not wear sunglasses to cover your eyes.</li>

      <li class="ul">Stop all dieting and purging.</li>

      <li class="ull">Stop going to tanning salons.</li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</body>
</html>