<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title/>
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:4ded8a26-02ff-4e89-a5a1-281d03d347b1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>

<body>
  <div class="chap" id="ch16">
    <p class="cn">Chapter 16</p>

    <h1 id="heading_id_2">Preventing Perfectionism from Returning</h1>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_3">Evaluating Your Progress</h2>

    <p class="paft">At the end of chapter 5, we mentioned that the process of assessing your perfectionism should be an ongoing one. Now that you have worked through this book, the next step is to evaluate the current status of your perfectionism. One way of doing this is to return to the issues raised in the chapter on assessment (chapter 5) and other early chapters and to re-evaluate where you’re at currently. In your journal, answer each of the following questions:</p>

    <p class="exh">Exercise 16.1 Re-Evaluating Your Perfectionism</p>

    <p class="paft">Of the perfectionistic thinking styles described in chapter 3, which are currently a problem? Does your perfectionistic thinking occur less often? Are your thoughts less intense and less upsetting than they were at the beginning of treatment?</p>

    <p>Of the perfectionistic behaviors described in chapter 4, which are currently a problem? Do you engage in perfectionistic behaviors less often than before? Which behaviors do you still need to work on?</p>

    <p>In chapter 5, you began to complete perfectionism diaries whenever you found yourself behaving in a perfectionistic matter. Have these episodes decreased in terms of how frequent, extreme, or upsetting they are?</p>

    <p>Are you more flexible in your thinking now that you have learned new strategies for combating perfectionism? For example, if you discover that a particular standard is impossible to meet, are you able to lower your standards to a more realistic level?</p>

    <p>Have you noticed a change in the sorts of situations that trigger your perfectionistic responses? Are there fewer triggers now?</p>

    <p>In chapter 5, you identified situations that are impacted by your perfectionism (for example, work, school, relationships, and so on). Are the same situations currently affected by your perfectionism? Are they impacted to the same degree as before?</p>

    <p>Has your awareness of your perfectionism changed? Are you more aware of the ways in which perfectionism affects (or used to affect) your life? Are you able to notice your perfectionistic thoughts and behaviors more easily than before?</p>

    <p>Have others commented on the ways in which your perfectionism has changed? Does your perfectionism affect others less than it did before?</p>

    <p>Have you noticed a change in your moods as a result of working through this book? Are your feelings of depression, anxiety, and irritability less frequent or less intense than before?</p>

    <p>How much better is your perfectionism? Is it 20 percent better? 50 percent better? 80 percent better? Choose any number from 0 to 100.</p>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_4">The Next Steps</h2>

    <p class="paft">The strategies in this book are not a <em>cure</em> for perfectionism. Chances are that perfectionism is still an issue for you, even if you have been practicing the techniques you have learned. Though a small number of people may overcome all issues with perfectionism as a result of using the strategies in this book, for most people the gains are likely to be more modest. We hope that you have noticed significant changes, that you have become less of a perfectionist than before, and that your tendency to feel anxious, depressed, or irritable has decreased. However, despite how much better things may be, it is possible that you will continue to struggle with perfectionism from time to time. So what’s next? Here are some options for possible next steps.</p>

    <p class="bh">Continue to Use the Strategies in This Book</p>

    <p>If the strategies in this book have been useful, but you still have some remaining perfectionism that you want to work on, you can continue to use the strategies in this book to work on your remaining issues. For example, you can continue to complete perfectionism diaries, to monitor and challenge your perfectionistic thoughts, to confront situations that make you feel uncomfortable, and to practice accepting your uncomfortable feelings rather than fighting them or trying to make them go away.</p>

    <p class="bh">Seek More Detailed Information</p>

    <p>For some readers, a general book on perfectionism like this one may not provide enough detail for the specific problems they are dealing with. For example, if your perfectionism is mostly related to depression, then a treatment focused on depression may be important for you. Similarly, a more specialized program for anger management, social anxiety, worry, body-image issues, or obsessive-compulsive problems may be warranted if any of these are issues for you. Further Readings, at the back of this book, provides recommended readings that focus on these issues in more detail.</p>

    <p class="bh">Find Professional Help</p>

    <p>In some cases, working through these strategies on your own may be difficult. The support of a professional who can either prescribe medications or help you to apply the psychological strategies described in this book may be helpful. If you have tried to use these strategies on your own and have experienced only limited success, this may be a good time to seek professional help. Chapter 6 provides suggestions for how to find a qualified professional. A therapist can help you work on your perfectionism more generally or work on some of the more specific problems that are often associated with perfectionism, such as depression, anxiety disorders, or difficulties in managing anger and aggression.</p>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_5">Maintaining Your Gains</h2>

    <p class="paft">Although there is evidence that the strategies in this book often lead to a reduction in perfectionism and associated problems, there is currently no research on the <em>long-term</em> benefits of these strategies. In other words, little is known about whether the effects of treatment for perfectionism are long lasting. However, based on what we know about cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) for other problems, there is a good chance that your improvements will continue over time. For many readers, the gains made as a result of the strategies in this book will be permanent. For others, there is a risk that some of your perfectionistic behaviors will start to slip back into your day-to-day life. This section discusses factors that may contribute to a return of perfectionism and strategies that you can use to keep your perfectionism away.</p>

    <p class="bh">What Causes Perfectionism to Return?</p>

    <p>Unfortunately, there are no studies that address the question of what causes perfectionism to return once it has been treated. However, there a number of factors that may play a role in whether your perfectionism will worsen in the future:</p>

    <p class="ch">The Types of Associated Problems You Experience</p>

    <p>People who have overcome an episode of depression have a high likelihood of experiencing additional periods of depression in the future, particularly if they have experienced multiple periods of depression in the past. If you have recently overcome an episode of depression, there are a number of strategies that can help to prevent additional episodes of depression, including mindfulness meditation, maintenance CBT, and maintenance medications. The book <em>Ending the Depression Cycle</em> (Bieling and Antony 2003) provides detailed advice on how to prevent future episodes of depression. In contrast to depression, problems with anxiety (for example, worry, social anxiety, obsessive-compulsive problems) are less likely to return once they have been successfully treated, particularly with CBT. Nevertheless, a return of symptoms is possible with anxiety-based problems as well.</p>

    <p class="ch">The Type of Treatment You Received</p>

    <p>For many psychological problems, CBT is more likely to lead to long-term gains than medications. Once treatment ends, a return of symptoms is more likely if treatment was with medication rather than CBT.</p>

    <p class="ch">Stress</p>

    <p>Stress puts people at risk for whatever problems they are prone to experience. For example, people who tend to get headaches are more likely to get them during or following periods of stress. People who tend to experience depression, panic attacks, or drinking too much alcohol often report more of these problems when under stress. If you are prone to be a perfectionist, these tendencies are likely to be worse when you are under stress at work, at home, or in other aspects of your life. Fortunately, your level of perfectionism should improve when your level of stress decreases.</p>

    <p class="ch">Responses from Others in Your Family, at Work, or Elsewhere</p>

    <p>If your perfectionism is beneficial to other people, you may find that others prefer for you to continue your perfectionist ways. For example, your partner might miss the old days when you did all the housework so you could make sure it was done to your standards. Similarly, your boss might prefer the time when you worked 80 hours per week to make sure all of your work got done. If you get rewarded for being a perfectionist by those around you, it may be more difficult for you to stick to your new, non-perfectionist standards. Discussing these issues with those who expect you to maintain your perfectionist ways may be useful.</p>

    <p class="ch">Falling Back into Old Patterns of Thinking and Behaving</p>

    <p>If you exercise regularly for a few months and then you suddenly stop, you would expect your muscles to return to their old, weakened state, right? The same is true for perfectionism. If you start to go back to your old ways of thinking about situations and your old ways of behaving, your difficulties will return. It’s important to continue challenging your negative thinking, to confront situations that make you anxious, and to emphasize acceptance of your emotional states rather than ­constantly trying to minimize discomfort.</p>

    <p class="bh">Keeping Your Perfectionism Away for Good</p>

    <p>Based on the above discussion on the factors that affect whether your perfectionism is likely to return, you can probably guess what you need to do to keep it away for good. First, it is important to continue to use the strategies that have been most helpful. Although it may not be necessary to continue to complete perfectionism diaries and the other exercises described throughout this book, it is important to continue to question your perfectionistic thoughts when they occur, to test out the validity of your thoughts by conducting small experiments, and to confront situations directly when you find yourself wanting to avoid them. You need to use the strategies described in chapters 7, 8, and 9 on a regular basis to maintain your gains.</p>

    <p>In addition, it’s important during times of stress to keep your perfectionism in check. Find ways to manage your stress effectively. For example, make time for yourself. Take a break from whatever is causing you stress to see a movie or go for a walk. Pay attention to your lifestyle habits. Be sure to get enough sleep, to eat properly, and to exercise. Some of the strategies described in this book (for example, relaxation, mindfulness meditation, challenging negative thinking) are useful for managing general stress levels as well.</p>

    <p class="bh"/>

    <p class="bh">Coping with a Return of Your Perfectionism</p>

    <p>If you notice that your perfectionism gets worse at some point in the future, pull out this book again and start to review the strategies that you found to be most useful the first time. If they worked for you once, chances are that they will work for you again, either on your own or with the support of a professional.</p>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_6">Conclusion</h2>

    <p class="paft">We hope this book introduced you to new skills that will help you to deal more effectively with your perfectionism and with the situations where it tends to get triggered. The more you practice these skills, the more improvement you will see. Best of luck as you continue to let go of the rules and standards that have been holding you back until now!</p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>