<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title/>
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:4ded8a26-02ff-4e89-a5a1-281d03d347b1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>

<body>
  <div class="chap" id="ch1">
    <p class="cn">Chapter 1</p>

    <h1 id="heading_id_2">What Is Perfectionism?</h1>

    <p class="paft">Most of us are bombarded with demands to improve our performance. From the time we are born, we must endure being evaluated and corrected by different people in our lives. When we first learn to talk, our parents correct our pronunciation. When we are young, we are taught by others how to walk, dress ourselves, hold our forks properly, refrain from putting our elbows on the table, wash behind our ears, and make our beds.</p>

    <p>As we grow up, our behavior continues to be evaluated, criticized, corrected, and rewarded. In school and at home, we learn that to attain the approval of others we must achieve specific standards. When we make mistakes, there are often practical negative consequences. For example, as children, if our grades fall below a particular level, we may be criticized by our teachers, parents, and friends. Sometimes, privileges (for example, permission to talk on the telephone, go out with friends, or receive an allowance) are taken away until the level of performance is back where it is expected to be.</p>

    <p>The frequent demands to meet and surpass established standards continue into adulthood. Many workplaces expect employees to improve their performance by accomplishing more in less time. Sales people are expected to break the previous years’ sales records. Companies strive to be more successful than their competitors.</p>

    <p>In addition to pressures from the outside, many people feel pressure from within to succeed or perform at a certain level. When cooking a meal for friends, it feels good to have your guests enjoy their meal. When trying to maintain a level of physical fitness, you may feel a sense of personal satisfaction when you have reached some new goal, such as being able to run a mile in less time.</p>

    <p>The desire to improve your performance or to meet high standards is not the same as being perfectionistic. It is this very desire to meet certain goals that often helps you perform effectively in your environment. For example, students who don’t care about their performance in school probably don’t study as hard and are likely to perform more poorly than students who have high personal standards. If this pattern of performance becomes a habit, there are often negative consequences. Their grades are lower, and they may not be accepted into their preferred college or university. People at the top of their field, such as elite athletes, must also set high standards to achieve what they do. Without standards, people generally achieve less.</p>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_3">Definitions of Perfectionism</h2>

    <p class="paft">So, what is perfectionism, and how is it different from a healthy desire to achieve high standards? As a starting point, let’s consider a dictionary definition. The online version of the <em>Merriam Webster Dictionary</em> defines perfectionism as “a disposition to regard anything short of perfection as unacceptable.” In contrast, professionals who study perfectionism tend to define the term in more detail. For example, in his frequently cited article in <em>Psychology Today</em>, psychiatrist David Burns (1980) defined perfectionists as people “whose standards are high beyond reach or reason” and “who strain compulsively and unremittingly toward impossible goals and who measure their own worth entirely in terms of productivity and accomplishment.” Burns pointed out that for these individuals, the drive to do well can actually impair performance.</p>

    <p class="bh">Multidimensional Definitions of Perfectionism</p>

    <p>Recently, psychologists have begun to define perfectionism as a multidimensional concept (Flett and Hewitt 2002). In other words, researchers increasingly view perfectionism as consisting of several different components or aspects. For example, Canadian psychologists Gordon Flett and Paul Hewitt have identified three main types of perfectionism: self-oriented perfectionism, other-oriented perfectionism, and socially prescribed perfectionism.</p>

    <p><em>Self-oriented perfectionism</em> is a tendency to have standards for yourself that are unrealistically high and impossible to attain. These standards are self-imposed and tend to be associated with self-criticism and an inability to accept your own mistakes and faults. When self-oriented perfectionism is combined with negative life events or perceived failure, it can lead to difficulties with depression.</p>

    <p><em>Other-oriented perfectionism</em> is a tendency to demand that others meet your unrealistically high standards. People who are other-oriented perfectionists are often unable to delegate tasks to others for fear of being disappointed by a less-than-perfect performance of the job. Other-oriented perfectionists may also have problems with excessive anger, relationship stress, and other difficulties related to their high expectations of others.</p>

    <p><em>Socially prescribed perfectionism</em> is a tendency to assume that others have expectations of you that are impossible to meet. Socially prescribed perfectionists also believe that to gain approval from others, these high standards must be met. Unlike self-oriented perfectionism, in which expectations are self-imposed, in socially prescribed perfectionism, the high standards are believed to be imposed by others. Socially prescribed perfectionism can lead to feelings of anger (at people who are perceived to have unrealistically high standards), depression (if high standards are not met), or social anxiety (fear of being judged by other people).</p>

    <p>In addition to the three dimensions of perfectionism proposed by Hewitt and Flett, psychologist Randy Frost and his colleagues have also been influential with respect to increasing the understanding of the multidimensional aspects of perfectionism (Frost et al. 1990). However, unlike Hewitt and Flett, Frost and colleagues proposed six different dimensions of perfectionism, including tendencies to be overly concerned about making mistakes, to have overly high personal standards, to doubt whether one has done things correctly, to have an extreme need for organization, to have parents with unreasonably high expectations, and to have parents who are overly critical.</p>

    <p>In summary, there are several different ways in which perfectionism can be defined. Some researchers define perfectionism as a single concept or dimension. Others view perfectionism as consisting of several related dimensions. Regardless of which view is taken, most definitions appear to share several features that can be summarized as follows:</p>

    <ul>
      <li class="ulf">People who are perfectionistic tend to have standards and expectations that are very difficult or impossible to meet.</li>

      <li class="ul">Although having high standards is often helpful, perfectionism is associated with having standards that are so high that they actually interfere with performance.</li>

      <li class="ull">Perfectionism is often associated with other problems, such as anxiety and depression.</li>
    </ul>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_4">Appropriately High Standards versus Perfectionistic Beliefs</h2>

    <p class="paft">Most people have strong opinions about how they should perform and about how certain things should be done. Although some standards are helpful, other standards may not be. For example, a person who has to speak in front of groups may have the belief: “It is important to do an excellent job.” Is this a perfectionistic belief or just an appropriate belief that leads to improved performance in public speaking situations? Unfortunately, people are often not very good at assessing the accuracy of their own beliefs about their standards, because most of us assume that our beliefs are correct.</p>

    <p>The appropriateness of a belief about standards for performance depends on several factors: the excessiveness of the standard (for example, can this goal be met?), the accuracy of the belief (for instance, is it true that this standard must be met?), the costs and benefits of imposing the standard (for example, does it help me to have the belief or standard?), and the flexibility of the standard or belief (for instance, am I able to adjust my standards and change my beliefs when necessary?).</p>

    <p>Consider an example. Most people believe that it’s important to wash regularly and to keep clean. Is this a perfectionistic belief or realistic high standard? Well, for most people, the standards for cleanliness are defined in a way that can be met with little effort, and, for most people, keeping clean has more benefits than costs. For example, with minimal effort, keeping clean makes it more likely that others will want to spend time with you. Finally, most people are also able to be flexible regarding their standards for cleanliness. Surgeons may raise the standard and wash their hands more carefully before doing surgery, whereas people who are camping in the wilderness may lower their standards and tolerate being less clean.</p>

    <p>In contrast, a person who has perfectionistic thoughts about cleanliness may have excessive beliefs that are inaccurate, inflexible, and cause more harm than good. For example, in our clinic we see some individuals with obsessive-compulsive disorder who wash their hands hundreds of times each day, to the point where their hands are red and sore from scrubbing. This repetitive washing may be triggered by perfectionistic beliefs about avoiding contamination from germs, toxins, and other substances. However, this level of washing doesn’t reduce the risk of becoming ill (compared to a more moderate amount of washing), and the person may actually be more at risk for infections (from cracking skin on their hands, and so on). For these individuals, the excessive frequency of washing often takes up hours each day and can interfere with all aspects of functioning, including work and social relationships.</p>

    <p>This may seem like an extreme example of perfectionistic behavior. For more subtle perfectionistic beliefs and behaviors, it may be difficult to decide whether the reactions are excessive, but the same principles apply. You must first determine whether the beliefs and standards are excessive, accurate, helpful, and flexible. We will return to the issue of how to determine whether beliefs are excessively perfectionistic in later chapters.</p>

    <p>The main point to consider here is that the more inflexible your beliefs are and the more situations in which you have inflexible opinions, the more likely you are to run into problems. This is particularly true in situations where your beliefs are arbitrary and subjective rather than based on facts or hard evidence. For example, the belief that one should not drink and drive is consistent with statistics showing that more than half of automobile accidents involve alcohol. On the other hand, an inflexible belief that people should only listen to classical music and that all other types of music are inferior might cause problems if you are surrounded by other people who are not classical music lovers.</p>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_5">Perfectionism as a Personality Trait</h2>

    <p class="paft">Personality traits are stable characteristics that make people who they are. The term “stable” implies that personality traits affect your behavior across situations and over time. For years, psychologists have debated about the exact number of basic personality traits. Earlier, researchers tended to view personality as being comprised of many different personality traits. The exact number of traits differed from theory to theory, although in some cases, the number of traits specified was in the hundreds. These traits included such dimensions as perfectionism, happiness, honesty, aggressiveness, anxiety, creativity, ambition, and just about any other dimension imaginable.</p>

    <p>More recently, many psychologists have come to believe that there are relatively few basic personality dimensions on which personality should be measured. One view of personality dimensions that has been supported by extensive research is that proposed by Robert McCrae and Paul Costa (2003), called the “Big Five Theory.” According to this view, there are five main dimensions on which personality can be measured: <em>neuroticism</em> (the extent to which people are insecure and anxious versus the extent to which they are calm and secure), <em>extraversion</em> (the extent to which people are sociable and talkative versus the extent to which they are quiet and reserved), <em>openness</em> (the extent to which people are curious and imaginative versus the extent to which they are conventional and unimaginative), <em>agreeableness</em> (the extent to which people are good natured and trusting versus the extent to which they are rude, suspicious, and irritable), and <em>conscientiousness</em> (the extent to which people are organized, reliable, and scrupulous versus the extent to which they are unreliable and careless).</p>

    <p>According to researchers who study personality theories such as the Big Five model, the specific ways in which people’s behaviors can be described along the five basic personality dimensions determine the precise personality composition that makes each person unique. This is similar to the way in which three primary colors (red, blue, and yellow) can be combined in different ways to produce all the different colors that we see.</p>

    <p>A number of the big five dimensions may contribute to perfectionism and related behaviors. For example, high levels of conscientiousness have been found to be associated with higher levels of self-oriented perfectionism (Hill, McIntire, and Bacharach 1997). However, there is a clear need for more research on the relationship between perfectionism and the big five dimensions. It’s possible that high conscientiousness may lead a person to be overly concerned with organization, order, cleanliness, and following rules. Neuroticism may contribute to the anxiety and poor self-esteem that is sometimes seen in perfectionists. Not being open may make it difficult for perfectionistic individuals to view situations in new and flexible ways. Finally, perfectionistic individuals who aren’t very agreeable may also be harder on others who do not meet their high standards.</p>

    <p>Of course, personality traits alone don’t determine our behavior. Behavior is the result of a complex interaction between personality traits and the situations in which we find ourselves. You may be a perfectionist in some situations and contexts but not others.</p>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_6">Areas Prone to Perfectionism</h2>

    <p class="paft">Below are some of the common areas in life in which unreasonably high standards can lead to problems:</p>

    <p class="bh">Performance at Work or School</p>

    <p>Some people tend to be particularly perfectionistic in their work, setting overly strict standards for their own performance or for the performance of their coworkers. For example, a construction worker who is very concerned about having every measurement perfect may spend too much time measuring and re-measuring, only to find that jobs are never completed on time. Similarly, supervisors who have very strict standards regarding the time their staff should arrive at work may frequently become angry and frustrated when employees arrive for work a few minutes late. Finally, a student who believes that any grade that is less than an A is unacceptable may feel depressed for a week or more after receiving a B on a test or a paper.</p>

    <p class="bh">Neatness and Aesthetics</p>

    <p>People who are perfectionistic with respect to neatness and cleaning often spend so much time cleaning that little time is left for other activities. Sometimes people can have very rigid beliefs about what looks good and may have difficulty allowing someone else to see things differently. Perfectionism can interfere with a person’s ability to get along with roommates or partners who don’t meet these standards for cleanliness or aesthetics. For example, individuals who believe that the house should be vacuumed twice daily may have difficulty convincing their housemates to share equally in the labor, especially if the housemates believe that vacuuming once every week or so is enough.</p>

    <p class="bh">Organization and Ordering</p>

    <p>Perfectionism can be associated with a need to have things organized or ordered in a particular way. For example, some people might need to have all their clothes folded and stored in a particular order (for instance, according to color), or they might spend hours each day making and revising lists of things that need to be done.</p>

    <p class="bh">Writing</p>

    <p>Writing can be difficult for some people who are perfectionistic. Individuals who fear making mistakes when writing may take a long time to fill out forms, write letters, finish term papers and exams, or complete other written work. They may procrastinate because the process of writing feels like torture.</p>

    <p class="bh">Speaking</p>

    <p>People who are perfectionistic with respect to speaking are often very self-conscious about how they speak and often worry about mispronouncing words or saying things incorrectly. Or, they may have overly rigid standards for others and feel compelled to correct people when they perceive that a mistake has been made, no matter how trivial.</p>

    <p class="bh">Physical Appearance</p>

    <p>For some people, perfectionism is focused on physical appearance. For example, people may hold perfectionistic standards about weight and body image, hair loss, and even their clothing. For example, one person who was seen in our clinic spent hours getting dressed in the morning. She would try on many different outfits, searching for the one that looked “just right.” As a result, she was usually late for work.</p>

    <p>People can also hold perfectionistic beliefs about the appearance of other individuals. On the TV show <em>Seinfeld</em>, the character of Jerry Seinfeld was never able to find a perfect partner with whom to settle down. Many of the women he dated had something “wrong” with them from his perspective, including hands that were too big, a voice that was too low, and a laugh that he perceived as unattractive. If his standards had been more flexible, Jerry might have found the “right” partner before the show finally ended in the spring of 1998.</p>

    <p class="bh">Health and Personal Cleanliness</p>

    <p>Sometimes health can be the focus of perfectionistic behavior. Some people become very rigid about what they do for fear of compromising their health. This may include being very particular about foods eaten (for example, never eating anything containing fat), compulsively exercising, or avoiding computer screens and other devices that give off radiation. Health-obsessed perfectionists may visit doctors frequently to check out unusual symptoms or to have unnecessary medical tests administered. Perfectionism can also cause some people to wash themselves excessively or to avoid touching anything that might be viewed as contaminated (for example, toilet seats, money, people’s hands, and so on).</p>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_7">The Origins of Perfectionism</h2>

    <p class="paft">Where does perfectionism come from? Is it learned through your experiences? Is it genetically inherited, like eye or hair color? Very little research has been done in this area, so a definitive answer will have to await further study. Nevertheless, we can speculate about the causes of perfectionism based on what we know about the origins of other personality traits. It appears that both psychological factors (for instance, learning) and biological factors (such as genetics) probably contribute to our personalities. This view has been supported by various studies examining the role of genetics and learning in the development of personality traits in general, and in the development of specific psychological problems like depression and anxiety. In this section, we discuss factors that may influence the development and maintenance of perfectionism, including biological influences, like genetics, and psychological influences, like reward and reinforcement, punishment, modeling, and information and instruction.</p>

    <p class="bh">Genetic Influences</p>

    <p>Numerous research studies have found that genetics plays a role in the development of various personality traits (Serretti et al. 2007), and recent evidence suggests that perfectionism is no exception (Tozzi et al. 2004). If perfectionism is partly inherited, does that mean that perfectionism cannot be changed? Not at all. Genetics affects just about every aspect of who you are, including physical fitness, academic ability, depression, anxiety, and even your interests and hobbies. Yet exercise can have an enormous effect on fitness level. Likewise, specific types of psychological therapies can help people to overcome problems with anxiety and depression. So, while there may be a biological component to your perfectionism, you can still change the way you think or behave.</p>

    <p class="bh">Reward and Reinforcement</p>

    <p>As we discussed earlier, having high standards is often rewarded by society. For example, society reinforces your working hard at school. Doing well in high school generally leads to higher grades, praise from teachers and parents, and admission to better colleges and universities. Society also rewards physical attractiveness. Looking your best by dressing nicely and staying clean can result in others finding you more attractive, which can, in turn, improve your chances of attracting a romantic partner and finding certain types of work.</p>

    <p>You may frequently hear stories of successful artists (actors, painters, film directors, and so on) who are difficult to work with because they are perfectionists. Perhaps their perfectionism has been rewarded or reinforced by their success. Being rewarded for perfectionistic behavior may lead to the belief that if one isn’t perfectionistic, one’s work will be compromised and the final product will be inferior.</p>

    <p class="exh">Exercise 1.1 How Reward and Reinforcement Have Contributed to Your Perfectionism</p>

    <p class="paft">Are there ways in which you have been rewarded for being a perfectionist? Try to recall situations from your past as well as from your current life. Think back to when you were in school—were you rewarded for being a perfectionist (for example, did you do better in school when you set higher standards for yourself)? Think about your work—did you ever have a supervisor who was especially appreciative of the care and high standards that went into your job? What about when you were growing up at home—did your parents ever reward you with praise, gifts, or special privileges when you engaged in perfectionistic behavior? What about in your current life—do friends or family reinforce your perfectionistic behavior in subtle ways? As you recall ways in which you might have been rewarded or reinforced for perfectionistic behavior, record them in your journal.</p>

    <p class="bh">Punishment</p>

    <p>A second type of learning experience that can affect an individual’s behavior is punishment. Punishment involves receiving some sort of negative consequence following a behavior. The overall effect of punishment is often to decrease the frequency of the punished behavior. Criticism from others is one form of punishment. For example, a child who is often criticized for doing things improperly (such as making a mess at the bathroom sink, not making the bed properly, mispronouncing words) may learn that it is always important to do things correctly. Individuals who are in a relationship with a person who is never pleased with their partner’s behavior (clothing, hairstyle, cooking, and so on), can develop a belief that it is very important to meet certain standards in order to please others. Other forms of punishment may include receiving low grades on a test, being laughed at by one’s peers, losing money, getting reprimanded at work, or failing to be hired for a new job. In fact, any type of negative consequence that follows a behavior can be considered punishment. If individuals are punished excessively for making even small mistakes, they may be more likely to develop a rigid belief that it’s very important not to make mistakes.</p>

    <p class="exh">Exercise 1.2 How Punishment Has Contributed to Your Perfectionism</p>

    <p class="paft">Can you recall times when you behaved in a particular way and were punished for your behavior? Did this tend to happen a lot when you were growing up? What about in your current life? Consider past and present situations at home, at school, and with friends. If you have frequently been punished for making mistakes, do some of these experiences appear to be responsible for triggering perfectionistic attitudes? Record your responses in your journal.</p>

    <p class="bh">Modeling</p>

    <p>Modeling involves learning to behave in certain ways by observing others. People can develop fears by watching other people who are afraid. People may start smoking, drinking alcohol, or using drugs after watching their peers use these substances. There also appears to be a relationship between watching violence on television and engaging in violent behavior, and that observing violent behavior can lead to more violence (Huesmann and Taylor 2006). All of these are examples of modeling. If people can learn these behaviors by observing others, it is possible that perfectionistic behaviors can develop in the same way. Many people who describe themselves as overly perfectionistic report that they grew up around others who had the same standards. As a result, there were opportunities to develop perfectionistic beliefs and behaviors by observing other family members, especially parents and older siblings.</p>

    <p class="exh">Exercise 1.3 How Modeling Has Contributed to Your Perfectionism</p>

    <p class="paft">Did you grow up with other people who are overly perfectionistic? If so, is it possible that modeling or observational learning contributed to your own perfectionistic attitudes? Can you think of ways in which your family members or other important people in your life are overly perfectionistic? Record your responses in your journal.</p>

    <p class="bh">Information and Instruction</p>

    <p>Another way in which people learn how to behave is through exposure to information in the media, talking to other people, or any other source of information. For example, people may learn to fear flying after hearing about various plane crashes in the news, even though flying is statistically one of the safest ways to travel.</p>

    <p>How can information contribute to perfectionism? Consider the following case example. One individual who was seen in our clinic reported intense anxiety over completing her college term papers perfectly. She wanted to be accepted into graduate school, so it was very important that her grades be high. She worked endlessly on each paper and had prepared many rough drafts for each one. However, she was not quite able to complete her work and hand in the papers for fear that they would not be good enough. While exploring the origins of her perfectionistic behavior, it became clear that the client’s parents may have had something to do with it. She was an only child, and her parents had very high expectations for her. From a very young age, the client’s parents had told her that they expected her to attend medical school at a top university and to eventually win the Nobel prize in medicine. No other career paths were possible for her. The client was not even sure whether she wanted to attend medical school, but she didn’t see herself as having any choice. Her parents were supporting her financially and had made their expectations clear since she was a child. In addition, the client truly believed that anything less than near-perfect performance in school was unacceptable. Of course, the price she was paying for this belief was not being able to complete her papers and not doing well in her courses.</p>

    <p>Another patient from our clinic reported that her perfectionistic beliefs about physical attractiveness were related to constantly being bombarded by extremely attractive people in advertising, movies, magazines, and catalogs. This particular individual had very perfectionistic beliefs about the importance of being thin, having perfect hair, and dressing immaculately. Not only were her beliefs unrealistic, but they were also unhealthy, leading her to maintain a weight level lower than that recommended for her height and frame. Apparently, for this individual, constantly being confronted with models and actors that she perceived as looking “perfect” provided her with an unreachable and unrealistic standard. Not surprisingly, eating disorders such as anorexia nervosa are particularly common among models, dancers, and other professions where there is intense pressure to be thin.</p>

    <p class="exh">Exercise 1.4 How Exposure to Information Has Contributed to Your Perfectionism</p>

    <p class="paft">Being told repeatedly by parents, teachers, or partners, or even by society in general, that it is important that things are done in a particular way, or that it is essential that mistakes are not made, can contribute to perfectionism. Can you think of ways in which you were exposed to certain types of information or instruction that contributed to your perfectionistic beliefs and behaviors? Record your responses in your journal.</p>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_8">Who Is to Blame for Your Perfectionism?</h2>

    <p class="paft">Throughout this section, we have described negative experiences that may have contributed to your perfectionism. In many cases, the examples and illustrations may seem to imply that criticism from others (parents, teachers, and so on) plays a role. However, we are not suggesting that these other people are to blame for your problem. Nor are we suggesting that you are to blame for your perfectionism. Although your patterns of thinking and behaving, as well as the way others have behaved around you, may have contributed to the development of excessively high standards, there are many factors that interact to form a person’s personality. In fact, it is preferable to completely sidestep the issue of who is to blame (because you will never know for sure exactly how the problem came to be) and focus instead on what can be done to change the problem.</p>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_9">If You Can’t Figure Out Where Your Perfectionism Comes From…</h2>

    <p class="paft">It’s not a problem if you can’t think of any particular experiences that may have contributed to your perfectionistic beliefs or behaviors. Although some people find it helpful to have an understanding of where their perfectionism may have come from, this understanding is not necessary for changing perfectionistic ways of thinking and doing things. In reality, the factors that may have initially caused you to become perfectionistic in certain situations may not be the same factors that maintain your perfectionism today.</p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>