<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title/>
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:4ded8a26-02ff-4e89-a5a1-281d03d347b1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>

<body>
  <div class="chap" id="ch2">
    <p class="cn">Chapter 2</p>

    <h1 id="heading_id_2">The Impact of Perfectionism</h1>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_3">How Perfectionism Affects Your Life</h2>

    <p class="paft">Perfectionism is a problem when it leads to unhappiness or interferes with functioning. Having excessively high standards can affect almost any area of life, including health, diet, work, relationships, and interests. In this section, we focus on some of the main areas that are often impaired by perfectionism: work, home and school, relationships, and recreation.</p>

    <p class="bh">Work, Home, and School</p>

    <p>Many people define themselves, at least in part, by the work they do. Therefore, it is generally important to them to do a good job. A salesperson experiences a sense of satisfaction after making a large sale. A student feels good after receiving an outstanding grade on an exam or assignment. However, perfectionism may get in the way of your performance at work, home, or school. Even if your performance is not affected directly, perfectionism may still reduce your ability to enjoy your work or may influence the ways in which you treat others at work. Consider these examples.</p>

    <p>Ronak is a high school history teacher who was overly concerned about doing a perfect job when the principal observed his class. He was so focused on how he was coming across that he was unable to focus on the content of his lecture. As a result, he actually made more mistakes than he might have if he was willing to settle for doing an “average” job on that particular day.</p>

    <p>Heather was so concerned about doing well at her job as a government clerk that she felt very uncomfortable doing just about anything else. Although her workload was not especially heavy, she tended to avoid coworkers who wanted to talk during work hours, and she avoided taking breaks (including lunch). She was also the first person to arrive at work and the last person to leave. Although it was her intention to make a good impression at work, her behavior had the effect of alienating her coworkers, including her supervisor. In her case, excessively high standards for herself affected the impression that she made on others at work.</p>

    <p>Frank was overly concerned about keeping the house clean, though you would never know it by looking at his house, which was extremely dirty and filled with clutter. He had grown up with parents who were extremely neat and tidy and expected the same of their children. His mother did not work outside of the home, and as far back as he could remember, she spent all of her day cleaning and re-cleaning the house. When he had moved into his own apartment after starting college, he had also cleaned excessively. Every room had to be spotless, and everything had to be put away at all times. After a few months, he began falling behind in his school work because of the time he spent cleaning. One day, after realizing that he could never keep the house clean enough to meet his standards, he stopped cleaning almost entirely. When he first came to our clinic, Frank hadn’t done any cleaning for over six months. He feared that if he started, he would be unable to stop.</p>

    <p>Valerie is a hospital administrator who had very high standards for her staff. She was completely intolerant of anyone arriving late for work, making small mistakes, or completing their work after a deadline—with no exceptions. She tended to respond to these behaviors with anger, and she had a reputation for being overly critical when completing performance evaluations of her staff. As a result, her staff stayed away from her as much as possible. They neither trusted her nor especially liked her. Staff turnover was significantly higher in her department, compared to similar departments in other hospitals. Her staff was unmotivated in their work because they knew that Valerie could never be satisfied, no matter how well they performed.</p>

    <p>Ben, a student, was terrified of getting anything less than an A on his midterm history exam. He started studying two weeks before the exam. He put everything else aside, including friends, family, sleep, and even food. He ate irregularly and stayed up all night studying for three days before the exam. Although he knew the material well, he was very tired the day of the exam. He drank several cups of coffee to stay alert, but the caffeine only made him more anxious. Although he passed the exam, he did more poorly than he would have if he had studied a bit less and had enough sleep.</p>

    <p class="exh">Exercise 2.1 The Effects of Perfectionism on Your Career, Studies, and Home Life</p>

    <p class="paft">Are there ways in which perfectionism affects your work? Does it take you forever to get your home looking just right? Are you sometimes so focused on doing a good job that you actually perform more poorly? Does your perfectionism affect your enjoyment of work or school? Does perfectionism affect the people who work with you? Do small tasks take too long because you spend too much time trying to do them perfectly? Record your responses in your journal.</p>

    <p class="bh">Relationships, Friendships, and Family Life</p>

    <p>For many people, relationships have an all-important role in maintaining their sense of well-being. Important relationships may include those with romantic partners, friends, family members, coworkers, and even acquaintances and strangers. Perfectionism can have an enormous impact on relationships, sometimes even contributing to the end of a relationship.</p>

    <p>Sometimes perfectionists are intolerant of people who do things differently than they do. This may be especially problematic in close relationships with family members or partners, and it can lead to any number of consequences. For example, if you are perfectionistic toward the people in your family, they may learn that the best way to please you is to not tell you things. They may assume (perhaps correctly) that what you don’t know won’t hurt them. An inability to communicate honestly in a relationship can compromise the quality of that relationship.</p>

    <p>Perfectionistic standards for others may also lead to arguments and disagreements with those around you, who may believe that you are being unreasonable or have expectations that are impossible to meet. If you continually criticize others who wash dishes differently than you do, choose to drive in a different lane than you would, or enjoy different types of movies than you do, these people are likely to become angry or hurt in response to your criticism.</p>

    <p>Perfectionistic standards toward others can affect the self-esteem and sense of worth of those around you. If your children are constantly led to believe that they are not living up to your expectations, they may feel worse about themselves and may even stop trying in school or other activities in which they are involved. Perfectionistic standards can also contribute to anxiety problems among those who are close to you.</p>

    <p>Being overly perfectionistic toward oneself can also lead to problems in relationships and friendships. For example, complaining excessively whenever you get less than an A on an exam may be insulting to friends who have to struggle to get a B or C. They might wonder what you think of them, given that their grades are so much lower than what you expect.</p>

    <p>People who have excessively high standards for themselves may also have problems with social anxiety that impairs their ability to make friends easily and develop close relationships. They may be overly concerned that others also have high standards and are likely to be critical. By avoiding contact with others, they never get to learn that others may be less critical than expected. Therefore, for people who are anxious in social situations, avoidance helps to maintain perfectionistic beliefs about the self. The relationship between perfectionism and social anxiety is discussed in more detail later in this chapter, as well as in chapter 12.</p>

    <p class="exh">Exercise 2.2 The Effects of Perfectionism on Your Relationships</p>

    <p class="paft">Does perfectionism affect your relationships? Do friends or family members complain about your need to do things perfectly? Does your perfectionism cause you to keep other people waiting? Do people feel as though others can’t live up to your strict standards? In your journal, record the ways in which perfectionism affects your relationships.</p>

    <p class="bh">Leisure and Recreation</p>

    <p>Does perfectionism sometimes make it difficult for you to enjoy yourself? Stephen was a business executive who complained that it was difficult for him to have fun. Upon further questioning, he reported that when he tried to have fun, his perfectionism got in the way. Leisure activities usually ended up feeling like work. One year, Stephen decided to learn to play the guitar, thinking that it would help him to relax. He enrolled in private lessons with one of the best-known (and most expensive) teachers in the city and made a commitment to practice playing for two hours each evening. He set an alarm to ring after two hours and would not take a break until the whole time had elapsed. He never missed a practice, even on days when he didn’t arrive home from work until late in the evening. After three weeks, he felt very discouraged because he was not enjoying practicing guitar and didn’t like the way his playing sounded (he expected to sound more like a pro than he did—even though he had only been playing for a few weeks). He quit playing a few days later and never picked up the guitar again. This experience was typical for him. In fact, he had tried to learn a number of musical instruments over the years and always gave up after not meeting his own high standards.</p>

    <p>Jean-Paul reported that his high standards made it very difficult to enjoy playing sports. Although he thought he should be involved in a sport, his perfectionism typically led him to take the game too seriously. For example, when playing baseball with friends, he tended to become very angry when a teammate dropped the ball or made some other mistake that cost the team a run. Usually, at the end of a game that didn’t go well, he would leave feeling frustrated about losing and guilty for becoming angry with his friends. Although he got involved with baseball to get his mind off other stresses, the game itself ended up being another source of stress.</p>

    <p>As seen in all of these examples, perfectionism can affect a person’s ability to enjoy leisure activities and recreation. However, it can also make it almost impossible for some people to even get involved in these activities. For people who have very high standards in other areas (such as work), it may be very difficult to make the time to do something enjoyable that is not work related. If this is a problem for you, you may find that you spend almost no time getting involved in hobbies, sports, pleasure reading, or other forms of recreation.</p>

    <p class="exh">Exercise 2.3 The Effects of Perfectionism on Your Leisure Time</p>

    <p class="paft">Does perfectionism affect your ability to enjoy leisure time? Is it hard for you to take a break from work or other obligations? When you’re engaged in some hobby or sport, does it feel like work? Do you feel compelled to do things perfectly, even when you are trying to relax and enjoy yourself? In your journal, record examples of the ways in which perfectionism impacts upon your leisure time.</p>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_4">Perfectionism and Psychological Functioning</h2>

    <p class="paft">Perfectionism is associated with a range of psychological problems, including depression, generalized anxiety and worry, social anxiety and shyness, obsessive-compulsive problems, anger difficulties, and issues related to body image and eating. This section discusses each of these potential problems that can arise from being overly perfectionistic.</p>

    <p class="bh">Depression</p>

    <p>Perfectionism is often a feature of depression. Depressed mood can vary in intensity from the normal periods of sadness that everyone experiences on occasion to a much more severe level of depression (such as clinical depression) that interferes with functioning. The course of depression also varies from individual to individual. For some people, depressed mood may last a few hours or a day at a time. Other people may experience depression for longer periods of time. In addition to depressed mood, symptoms of major depression may include lack of interest in one’s normal activities, overeating or loss of appetite, changes in sleep, feeling restless and agitated (or very slowed down), feeling worthless or guilty, poor concentration or difficulty making decisions, feeling tired, or thoughts about death or suicide. People who suffer from clinical depression may find it difficult to socialize with others, to be productive at work, or to keep on top of housework.</p>

    <p>Clinical forms of depression appear to be related to a variety of factors. Biological factors that may play a role include genetic inheritance, changes in levels of chemicals in the brain called <em>neurotransmitters</em> (for example, serotonin and norepinephrine), and changes in hormonal levels (for example, variation in the phase of the menstrual cycle, hormonal changes associated with pregnancy and childbirth). Other biological factors such as sleep, the amount of available sunlight, and diet can also play a role in depression for some individuals. Psychological factors in depression include a person’s learning history (for example, growing up in a home where you are frequently told you are inadequate or worthless), history of uncontrollable, stressful life events (for instance, the death of a close friend or family member, the loss of a job), and negative thinking patterns (thoughts like “things never seem to work out right”).</p>

    <p>Perfectionistic thoughts and behaviors are often important in the maintenance of depression. People who are perfectionistic often set very high standards for themselves in their work, interpersonal relationships, or other areas. If these standards are continually not met, such an individual may start to feel inadequate, disappointed, or even hopeless or worthless. If depression is a problem for you, it might feel like there is something wrong with you that interferes with your ability to reach your goals and meet your expectations. However, the truth may be that the goals are unrealistic or that you place too much importance on reaching them. Finding ways to increase flexibility and become more willing to make mistakes and risk being average can help to decrease feelings of depression.</p>

    <p class="bh">Generalized Anxiety and Worry</p>

    <p>Are you a worrywart? Excessive anxiety and worry can be both unpleasant and unproductive. Anxiety is an emotion that we experience when we believe we are vulnerable to some sort of threat in the future, such as failing an exam, missing a flight, losing our luggage, having harm come to a loved one, or upsetting the boss. Though it would be natural to experience intense anxiety over learning about a parent who was just diagnosed with cancer, most people would agree that worrying to the same degree about a relative who has a common cold is excessive. Often, anxiety is very helpful in that it helps you plan for the future. If people didn’t worry at all, no one would bother studying for exams or getting to work on time when they wanted to sleep in. Some anxiety is essential for getting things done. However, when anxiety occurs too often or too intensely, it can begin to interfere with a person’s sleep, concentration, and enjoyment of life.</p>

    <p>Perfectionism is often associated with generalized anxiety and worry. When you set very high standards for yourself or others, there is always a risk of those standards not being met, which can lead to anxiety. For example, if you believe that your children should be performing at the highest level in all of their activities, including school, sports, piano practice, and anything else they do, you may always be worried that their performance may slip in one of these areas. You may also worry excessively about your abilities as a parent if your child does poorly.</p>

    <p class="bh">Social Anxiety and Shyness</p>

    <p>One particular type of anxiety that has a particularly strong association with perfectionism is <em>social anxiety</em>. By social anxiety, we mean anxiety, fear, or discomfort around other people, usually associated with a fear of being embarrassed or humiliated (extreme shyness and stage fright are examples). Typical social situations that are often feared by people who are socially anxious include those involving interaction with others (for instance, talking to strangers, having friends over for dinner, going to parties, being assertive) as well as performance situations in which others might be focused on your behavior (things like public speaking, talking in a meeting, exercising in front of others, and so on).</p>

    <p>When confronted with a feared situation, people who are socially anxious may experience a whole range of symptoms that may include elevated heart rate, breathlessness, dizziness, and other symptoms of arousal. The most frightening of these symptoms are often those that might be noticed by other people, including blushing, sweating, shaking, and losing one’s train of thought. People who are anxious in social situations often are particularly nervous that others will find them to be strange, incompetent, stupid, or unattractive. They may be fearful of saying the wrong thing or of seeming overly anxious. People with high levels of social anxiety tend to believe that others are likely to judge them negatively. Social anxiety is associated with a tendency to be overly concerned about making mistakes, as well as a tendency to have very high standards for oneself. Socially anxious individuals may hold beliefs like, “I should be liked by everyone,” “I should never make mistakes,” or “I should never allow my anxiety to show.”</p>

    <p class="bh">Anger</p>

    <p>Like anxiety, anger is a normal emotion that sometimes occurs when we are prevented from achieving some goal or are faced with some threat. For example, a person who undeservingly receives a poor performance appraisal at work might become angry at his or her supervisor. Anger can be helpful when it motivates us to correct a situation (for example, by confronting the supervisor and requesting that the performance appraisal be changed) or to meet a threat head on. However, like other emotions, anger can lead to problems when it occurs too frequently, too intensely, or in situations where it is not warranted.</p>

    <p>Although everyone gets angry from time to time, excessive anger and irritability are commonly associated with other negative feelings such as anxiety and depression. The tendency to experience excessive anger is believed to stem from a complex interaction among biological processes (for example, genetics, hormones, and so on) and psychological processes (for instance, our learning and our beliefs). Inflexible beliefs about the way things “should be” can easily lead to disappointment and anger when expectations are not met. Therefore, people who are perfectionistic are often more prone to experience difficulties with anger, frustration, and irritability when compared to individuals who are less perfectionistic. Because perfectionistic standards are often unattainable, rigid, and inflexible, they often are not met. As a result, you may be very frustrated when your hair is not cut exactly the way you expected or when your children leave a book or toy in the wrong place. Perfectionism can also lead other people to become angry if you tend to correct them over and over again. Trying too hard to make others see or do things your way can lead to bickering and arguments. One strategy for decreasing anger and irritability is learning to change unreasonable expectations of yourself and others.</p>

    <p class="bh">Obsessive-Compulsive Behavior</p>

    <p>Up to 80 percent of people in the general population experience obsessions and compulsions from time to time (Antony, Downie, and Swinson 1998). <em>Obsessions</em> are unwanted thoughts, images, or urges that occur repeatedly, despite efforts to resist them. Examples may include thoughts about being contaminated by germs; images of hurting other people, even though you have no desire to hurt anyone; and recurrent doubts about whether tasks have been completed correctly. <em>Compulsions</em> are repetitive behaviors that occur in response to obsessions or according to rigidly applied rules. Compulsions typically decrease the discomfort and anxiety created by the obsessions, or they are used to prevent some dreaded event. For example, people who have obsessions about cleanliness and germs may engage in compulsive rituals involving cleaning and washing. People with doubts about their actions may check their work excessively, to the point of not getting anything done.</p>

    <p>Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a problem in which people experience obsessions and compulsions frequently and there is impairment in functioning as a result. For example, whereas many people may feel compelled to check their appliances once or twice before leaving the house, an individual with OCD may check many times over the course of an hour or more. In the 1997 film <em>As Good as it Gets</em>, Jack Nicholson portrayed a man who suffers from OCD. In the film, his character has a fear of contamination (he only eats with wrapped plastic utensils) and engages in compulsive washing rituals. He also tends to be quite rigid about a range of activities. He insists on eating at the same table each time he visits his favorite restaurant and will only be served by a particular server. Also, he cannot step on sidewalk cracks and has to complete the same tasks each day, in the same order. Although Jack Nicholson’s character has other problems that are not related to OCD (a tendency to offend everyone who interacted with him), the film does a nice job demonstrating some of the features of the disorder.</p>

    <p>Todd had obsessions about making mistakes when talking to other people, and he engaged in compulsions involving repeating sentences and asking for reassurance that he was understood correctly. For example, he feared that he might give someone incorrect directions or that some detail might be misunderstood when he told his coworkers about what he did on the weekend. As a result, he often avoided talking to people in case he said something wrong, and he usually repeated everything he said to other people to be sure that he was not misunderstood. Occasionally, he recorded conversations he had over the telephone and even in person so he could check them later for possible misunderstandings.</p>

    <p>Like the other problems discussed in this chapter, there is evidence that both biological and psychological factors contribute to OCD. Genetics appears to play a role. In addition, there is evidence that the neurotransmitter serotonin may be important in the development of the problem. From a psychological perspective, learning may play a role for some individuals. In addition, the types of beliefs and behaviors engaged in by individuals with OCD probably help to maintain the problem. For example, whereas most people have unpleasant intrusive thoughts from time to time, people with OCD are much more afraid of these thoughts compared to the average person. They may feel overly responsible for preventing negative things from happening. People with OCD are also more likely than others to suppress or to resist having their unpleasant intrusive thoughts. Unfortunately, one consequence of trying to resist unpleasant thoughts is that they tend to come back more strongly later.</p>

    <p>Perfectionism plays a role in OCD, in that compulsive behaviors often need to be repeated over and over until they “feel right.” Also, the order in which activities are completed is sometimes inflexible. For example, for some people who wash compulsively, the order in which various parts of the body are washed is very important. People with OCD may also doubt whether they have completed tasks or said things to others correctly, even though their definition of “correct” may be very different from that of another person.</p>

    <p>In addition to OCD, there is a related problem called obsessive-compulsive-personality disorder (OCPD). OCPD is a personality style in which an individual is extremely perfectionistic and inflexible and is preoccupied with being orderly and organized. People with this problem tend to be so preoccupied with rules, lists, details, order, and organization that they actually get very little done. They tend to be overly devoted to work and productivity, leaving little time for recreation. Because of rigid views regarding how things should be done, people with OCPD typically have difficulty letting others do things for them. In many ways, the criteria for OCPD correspond directly with the defining features of perfectionism.</p>

    <p>Although OCD and OCPD have similar names, they differ in a number of important ways. In OCD, compulsive behaviors are designed to decrease anxiety created by very specific obsessions (such as washing in response to thoughts about contamination or checking in response to thoughts about losing things). In contrast, OCPD reflects a general personality style that cuts across many different activities and situations. Furthermore, OCPD is generally not considered to be anxiety based, and the people with this problem may be unaware that their perfectionistic thoughts and behaviors are excessive. In chapter 14, we discuss the relationship between perfectionism and obsessive-compulsive behavior in more detail.</p>

    <p class="bh">Body-Image Problems and Eating Disorders</p>

    <p>Another domain in which some people are perfectionistic is their physical appearance. Especially in North American and Western European cultures, there has been an increasing emphasis on being thin, particularly among women. Consider some of the trends over the past few decades. Women who work as models, actors, and dancers continue to get thinner, as the average woman living in North America has become heavier. In fact, 77.5 percent of recent Playboy centerfolds weighed at least 15 percent below that expected for their age and height—thin enough to meet the weight criterion for anorexia nervosa (Katzmarzky and Davis 2001).</p>

    <p>The standards for thinness reflected by the media are becoming increasingly impossible to meet. One study found that body dissatisfaction is increasing and occurring at younger ages (Cramer and Steinwert 1998). By school age, girls report more fear of looking fat than they do of losing their parents, getting cancer, or experiencing a nuclear war. There has also been a steady increase in the number of individuals suffering from eating disorders. Perfectionism tends to be a feature of disordered eating, particularly for people suffering from anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa.</p>

    <p><em>Anorexia nervosa</em> is an eating disorder in which an individual engages in self-starvation in order to maintain a very low body weight (at least 15 percent below a minimally normal weight for a person’s age and height). In addition, there is an intense fear of becoming fat and often a denial that one is underweight. In addition to having unhealthy standards for what one’s weight should be, people with anorexia nervosa may be perfectionistic in other areas as well. <em>Bulimia nervosa</em> is an eating disorder in which the individual engages in frequent episodes of binge eating (that is, eating large amounts of food in a very short time and feeling a lack of control over eating). In addition, the individual uses various strategies to “undo” the effects of having overeaten, including self-induced vomiting, laxative abuse, the use of diuretics, and/or excessive exercise. Like anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa is associated with a tendency to put too much of an emphasis on body shape and weight when evaluating oneself.</p>

    <p>People with eating disorders often have very rigid and inflexible rules about eating and food. We once saw two individuals with eating disorders who ended up having an argument about which part of their bread had more calories. One person insisted that the crust had more calories and would only eat the inside of the bread. The other person believed the inside of the bread was more fattening and would only eat the crust. Of course, both the inside and outside of a loaf of bread have similar amounts of fat, yet both women were very resistant to changing their views. Both had very strict views about what foods could be eaten and which were to be avoided. This rigidity is a characteristic of perfectionism.</p>

    <p>Sometimes, individuals can have perfectionistic beliefs focused on some aspect of physical appearance other than weight. Such people may become very focused on a particular body part that they view as imperfect. For example, a person may become overly concerned with his or her hair, spending hours per day styling it and even trimming it themselves so that it is perfect. Some men may become overly focused on losing their hair, imagining their hair loss to be extremely unattractive. Others may be unhappy with their nose, or the shape of their legs or other body part. Although many people are occasionally unhappy with some aspect of the way they look (the cosmetic surgery industry depends on this!), some people may be so preoccupied with some aspect of their appearance that they have trouble thinking about anything else. Typically, they imagine themselves to be extremely ugly, even though most people would disagree. When this imagined ugliness begins to interfere with functioning, it may meet criteria for a condition known as <em>body dysmorphic disorder</em>. Like the eating disorders, body dysmorphic disorder is associated with extremely rigid and perfectionistic thinking regarding physical appearance. Chapter 15 discusses further the relationship between perfectionism and ­problems related to body image.</p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>