<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title/>
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:4ded8a26-02ff-4e89-a5a1-281d03d347b1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>

<body>
  <div class="chap" id="copyright">
    <p class="cipf">Publisher’s Note</p>

    <p class="cip"><em>This publication is designed to provide accurate and authoritative information in regard to the subject matter covered. It is sold with the understanding that the publisher is not engaged in rendering psychological, financial, legal, or other professional services. If expert assistance or counseling is needed, the services of a competent professional should be sought.</em></p>

    <p class="cip">Distributed in Canada by Raincoast Books</p>

    <p class="cip">Copyright © 2009 by Martin M. Antony and Richard P. Swinson</p>

    <p class="cip1">New Harbinger Publications, Inc.</p>

    <p class="cip1">5674 Shattuck Avenue</p>

    <p class="cip1">Oakland, CA 94609</p>

    <p class="cip1"><a href="http://www.newharbinger.com">www.newharbinger.com</a></p>

    <p class="cip">All Rights Reserved</p>

    <p class="cip">Printed in the United States of America</p>

    <p class="cip">Acquired by Tesilya Hanauer; Cover design by Amy Shoup;</p>

    <p class="cip">Edited by Carole Honeychurch</p>

    <p class="cip">epub ISBN: 9781608823642</p>

    <p class="cip">Library of Congress has cataloged the print edition as:</p>

    <p class="cip">Antony, Martin M.</p>

    <p class="cip">When perfect isn’t good enough : strategies for coping with perfectionism / Martin M. Antony and Richard P. Swinson. -- 2nd ed.</p>

    <p class="cip">p. cm.</p>

    <p class="cip">Includes bibliographical references (p. ).</p>

    <p class="cip">ISBN-13: 978-1-57224-559-4 (pbk. : alk. paper)</p>

    <p class="cip">ISBN-10: 1-57224-559-X (pbk. : alk. paper)</p>

    <p class="cip">1. Perfectionism (Personality trait) I. Swinson, Richard P. II. Title.</p>

    <p class="cip">BF698.35.P47A58 2009</p>

    <p class="cip">158.1--dc22</p>

    <p class="cip">2008039802</p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>