<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title/>
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:4ded8a26-02ff-4e89-a5a1-281d03d347b1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>

<body>
  <div class="chap" id="reading">
    <h1 id="heading_id_2">Further Readings</h1>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_3">Perfectionism</h2>

    <p class="bh">Self-Help Readings</p>

    <p>Burns, D. D. 1980. The perfectionist’s script for self-defeat. <em>Psychology Today</em> November, 34–57.</p>

    <p>Basco, M. R. 1999. <em>Never Good Enough: How to Use Perfectionism to Your Advantage without Letting It Ruin Your Life</em>. New York: Touchstone.</p>

    <p class="bh">Readings for Professionals</p>

    <p>Flett, G. L., and P. L. Hewitt, eds. 2002. <em>Perfectionism: Theory, Research, and Treatment</em>. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.</p>

    <p class="bh">Video Resources</p>

    <p>Antony, M. M. 2008. <em>Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Perfectionism Over Time.</em> DVD<em>.</em> Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.</p>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_4">Cognitive Behavioral Therapy</h2>

    <p class="bh">Self-Help Readings</p>

    <p>Burns, D. D. 1999. <em>The Feeling Good Handbook, Rev. ed</em>. New York: Plume.</p>

    <p>Butler, G. and T. Hope. 2007. <em>Managing Your Mind: The Mental Fitness Guide</em>. 2nd ed. New York: Oxford University Press.</p>

    <p>Greenberger, D. and C. A. Padesky. 1995. <em>Mind Over Mood: Change How You Feel by Changing the Way You Think</em>. New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <p>McKay, M., M. Davis and P. Fanning. 2007. <em>Thoughts and Feelings: Taking Control of Your Moods and Your Life.</em> 3rd ed. Oakland, CA: New Harbinger Publications.</p>

    <p class="bh">Readings for Professionals</p>

    <p>Antony, M. M., D. R. Ledley and R. G. Heimberg, eds. 2005. <em>Improving Outcomes and Preventing Relapse in Cognitive Behavioral Therapy.</em> New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <p>Barlow, D. H., ed. 2008. <em>Clinical Handbook of Psychological Disorders.</em> 4th ed. New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <p>Beck, J. S. 1995. <em>Cognitive Therapy: Basics and Beyond.</em> New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <p>Beck, J. S. 2005. <em>Cognitive Therapy for Challenging Problems: What to Do When the Basics Don’t Work</em>. New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <p>Bieling, P. J., R. E. McCabe and M. M. Antony. 2006. <em>Cognitive Behavioral Therapy in Groups</em>. New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <p>O’Donohue, W., J. E. Fisher and S. C. Hayes, eds. 2003. <em>Cognitive Behavior Therapy: Applying Empirically Supported Techniques in Your Practice</em>. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley.</p>

    <p>Richard, D. C. S. and D. Lauterbach. 2007. <em>Handbook of Exposure Therapies</em>. New York: Academic Press.</p>

    <p>Wright, J. H., M. R. Basco and M. E. Thase. 2006. <em>Learning Cognitive-Behavior Therapy: An Illustrated Guide.</em> Washington, DC: American Psychiatric Press.</p>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_5">Communication Training</h2>

    <p class="bh">Self-Help Readings</p>

    <p>Christensen, A. &amp; N. S. Jacobson. 2000. <em>Reconcilable Differences</em>. New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <p>Davis, M., K. Paleg and P. Fanning. 2004. <em>The Messages Workbook: Powerful Strategies for Effective Communication at Work and Home</em>. Oakland, CA: New Harbinger.</p>

    <p>Honeychurch, C. and A. Watrous. 2003. <em>Talk to Me: Conversation Tips for the Small-Talk Challenged</em>. Oakland, CA: New Harbinger Publications.</p>

    <p>MacInnis, J. L. 2006. <em>The Elements of Great Public Speaking: How to Be Calm, Confident, and Compelling.</em> Berkeley, CA: 10 Speed Press.</p>

    <p>McKay, M., M. Davis and P. Fanning. 2009. <em>Messages: The Communications Skills</em> <em>Book.</em> 3rd ed. Oakland, CA: New Harbinger.</p>

    <p>McKay, M., P. Fanning and K. Paleg. 2006. <em>Couple Skills: Making Your Relationship Work.</em> 2nd ed. Oakland, CA: New Harbinger.</p>

    <p>Monarth, H. and L. Kase. 2007. <em>The Confident Speaker: Beat Your Nerves and Communicate at Your Best in Any Situation</em>. New York: McGraw-Hill.</p>

    <p>Patterson, R. J. 2000. <em>The Assertiveness Workbook: How to Express Your Ideas and Stand Up for Yourself at Work and in Relationships</em>. Oakland, CA: New Harbinger Publications.</p>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_6">Procrastination</h2>

    <p class="bh">Self-Help Readings</p>

    <p>Burka, J. B. and L. M. Yuen. 1983. <em>Procrastination: Why You Do It and What to Do About It</em>. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.</p>

    <p>Knauss, W. 2002. <em>The Procrastination Workbook: Your Personalized Program for Breaking Free of the Patters That Hold You Back</em>. Oakland, CA: New Harbinger Publications.</p>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_7">Depression</h2>

    <p class="bh">Self-Help Readings</p>

    <p>Addis, M. E. and C. R. Martell. 2004. <em>Overcoming Depression One Step at a Time: The New Behavioral Activation Approach to Getting Your Life Back</em>. Oakland, CA: New Harbinger Publications.</p>

    <p>Bieling, P. J. and M. M. Antony. 2003. <em>Ending the Depression Cycle: A Step-by-Step Guide for Preventing Relapse.</em> Oakland, CA: New Harbinger Publications.</p>

    <p>Knauss, W. J. 2006. <em>The Cognitive Behavioral Workbook for Depression: A Step-by-Step Program.</em> Oakland, CA: New Harbinger Publications.</p>

    <p>Williams, M., J. Teasdale, Z. Segal, and J. Kabat-Zinn. 2007. <em>The Mindful Way Through Depression: Freeing Yourself from Chronic Unhappiness.</em> New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <p class="bh">Readings for Professionals</p>

    <p>Beck, A. T., A. J. Rush, B. F. Shaw, and G. Emery. 1979. <em>Cognitive Therapy of Depression</em>. New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <p>Gotlib, I. H. and C. L. Hammen. 2009. <em>Handbook of Depression,</em> 2nd ed. New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <p>Persons, J. B., J. Davidson, and M. A. Tompkins. 2001<em>. Essential Components of Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy for Depression</em>. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.</p>

    <p>Segal, Z. V., J. M. G. Williams, and J. D. Teasdale. 2002. <em>Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy for Depression: A New Approach to Preventing Relapse</em>. New York, NY: Guilford Publications.</p>

    <p>Weissman, M. M., J. C. Markowitz, and G. L. Klerman. 2000. <em>Comprehensive Guide to Interpersonal Psychotherapy.</em> New York: Basic Books.</p>

    <p>Whisman, M. A. 2008. <em>Adapting Cognitive Therapy for Depression: Managing Complexity and Comorbidity</em>. New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_8">Anger</h2>

    <p class="bh">Self-Help Readings</p>

    <p>Eifert, G. H., M. McKay, and J. P. Forsyth. 2005. <em>ACT on Life, Not on Anger: The New Acceptance and Commitment Therapy Guide for Problem Anger.</em> Oakland, CA: New Harbinger Publications.</p>

    <p>McKay, M., P. D. Rogers, and J. McKay. 2003. <em>When Anger Hurts: Quieting the Storm Within</em>, 2nd ed. Oakland, CA: New Harbinger Publications.</p>

    <p>Nay, W. R. 2004. <em>Taking Charge of Anger: How to Resolve Conflict, Sustain Relationships, and Express Yourself without Losing Control</em>. New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <p class="bh">Readings for Professionals</p>

    <p>DiGiuseppe, R. and R. C. Tafrate. 2007. <em>Understanding Anger Disorders</em>. New York: Oxford University Press.</p>

    <p>Feindler, E. L. 2006. <em>Anger-Related Disorders: A Practitioner’s Guide to Comparative Treatments</em>. New York: Springer.</p>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_9">Anxiety and Worry</h2>

    <p class="bh">Self-Help Readings</p>

    <p>Antony, M. M. and P. J. Norton. 2009. <em>The Anti-Anxiety Workbook: Proven Strategies to Overcome Worry, Panic, Phobias, and Obsessions</em>. New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <p>Davis, M., E. R. Eshelman, and M. McKay. 2008. <em>The Relaxation and Stress Reduction</em> <em>Workbook.</em> 6th ed. Oakland, CA: New Harbinger Publications.</p>

    <p>Forsyth, J. P. and G. H. Eifert. 2007. <em>The Mindfulness and Acceptance Workbook for Anxiety: A Guide to Breaking Free from Anxiety, Phobias, and Worry Using Acceptance and Commitment Therapy</em>. Oakland, CA: New Harbinger Publications.</p>

    <p>Gyoerkoe, K. L. and P. S. Wiegartz. 2006. <em>10 Simple Solutions to Worry: How to Calm Your Mind, Relax Your Body, &amp; Reclaim Your Life</em>. Oakland, CA: New Harbinger Publications.</p>

    <p>Hazlett-Stevens, H. 2005. <em>Women Who Worry Too Much: How to Stop Worry and Anxiety from Ruining Relationships, Work, &amp; Fun</em>. Oakland, CA: New Harbinger Publications.</p>

    <p class="bh">Readings for Professionals</p>

    <p>Antony, M. M. and M. B. Stein. 2009. <em>Oxford Handbook of Anxiety and Related Disorders</em>. New York: Oxford University Press.</p>

    <p>Antony, M. M. and R. P. Swinson. 2000. <em>Phobic Disorders and Panic in Adults: A Guide to Assessment and Treatment</em>. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.</p>

    <p>Barlow, D. H. 2002. <em>Anxiety and Its Disorders: The Nature and Treatment of Anxiety and Panic.</em> 2nd ed<em>.</em> New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <p>Bernstein, D. A., T. D. Borkovec, and H. Hazlett-Stevens. 2000. <em>New Directions in Progressive Relaxation Training: A Guidebook for Helping Professionals</em>. Westport, CT: Praeger.</p>

    <p>Davey, G. C. L. and A. Wells, eds. 2006. <em>Worry and Its Psychological Disorders: Theory, Assessment, and Treatment</em>. Chichester, UK: Wiley.</p>

    <p>Dugas, M. J. and M. Robichaud. 2007. <em>Cognitive-Behavioral Treatment for Generalized Anxiety Disorder</em>. New York: Routledge.</p>

    <p>Eifert, G. H. and J. P. Forsyth. 2005. <em>Acceptance and Commitment Therapy for Anxiety Disorders: A Practitioner’s Treatment Guide to Using Mindfulness, Acceptance, and Values-Based Behavior Change Strategies</em>. Oakland, CA: New Harbinger Publications.</p>

    <p>Hazlett-Stevens, H. 2008. <em>Psychological Approaches to Generalized Anxiety Disorder: A Clinician’s Guide to Assessment and Treatment</em>. New York: Springer.</p>

    <p>Heimberg, R. G., C. L. Turk, and D. S. Mennin, eds. 2004. <em>Generalized Anxiety Disorder: Advances in Research and Practice</em>. New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <p>Rygh, J. L. and W. C. Sanderson. 2004. <em>Treating Generalized Anxiety Disorder: Evidence-Based Strategies, Tool, and Techniques</em>. New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_10">Social and Performance Anxiety</h2>

    <p class="bh">Self-Help Readings</p>

    <p>Antony, M. M. 2004. <em>10 Simple Solutions to Shyness: How to Overcome Shyness, Social Anxiety, and Fear of Public Speaking</em>. Oakland, CA: New Harbinger Publications.</p>

    <p>Antony, M. M. and R. P. Swinson. 2008. <em>The Shyness and Social Anxiety Workbook: Proven, Step-by-Step Techniques for Overcoming Your Fear.</em> 2nd ed. Oakland, CA: New Harbinger Publications.</p>

    <p>Hope, D. A., R. G. Heimberg, H. R. Juster, and C. L. Turk. 2000. <em>Managing Social</em> <em>Anxiety</em>. New York: Oxford University Press.</p>

    <p>Stein, M. B. and J. R. Walker. 2002. <em>Triumph over Shyness: Conquering Shyness and Social Anxiety</em>. New York: McGraw-Hill.</p>

    <p class="bh">Readings for Professionals</p>

    <p>Antony, M. M. and K. Rowa. 2008. <em>Social Anxiety Disorder: Psychological Approaches to Assessment and Treatment</em>. Göttingen, Germany: Hogrefe.</p>

    <p>Beidel, D. C. and S. M. Turner. 2007. <em>Shy Children, Phobic Adults: Nature and Treatment of Social Anxiety Disorder,</em> 2nd ed. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.</p>

    <p>Crozier, W. R. and L. E. Alden, eds. 2005. <em>The Essential Handbook of Social Anxiety for Clinicians</em>. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley.</p>

    <p>Heimberg, R. G. and R. E. Becker. 2002. <em>Cognitive-Behavioral Group Therapy for Social Phobia: Basic Mechanisms and Clinical Strategies</em>. New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <p>Hofmann, S. and M. W. Otto. 2008. <em>Cognitive-Behavior Therapy of Social Phobia: Evidence-Based and Disorder Specific Treatment Techniques</em>. New York: Routledge.</p>

    <p>Hope, D. A., R. G. Heimberg, and C. L. Turk. 2006. <em>Managing Social Anxiety: A Cognitive Behavioral Therapy Approach Therapist Guide</em>. New York: Oxford University Press.</p>

    <p class="bh">Video Resources</p>

    <p>Albano, A. M. 2006. <em>Shyness and Social Phobia</em>. DVD. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.</p>

    <p>Rapee, R. M. 1999. <em>I Think They Think: Overcoming Social Phobia.</em> DVD. New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_11">Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder</h2>

    <p class="bh">Self-Help Readings</p>

    <p>Foa, E. B. and R. Wilson. 2001. <em>Stop Obsessing!</em> <em>How to Overcome Your Obsessions and Compulsions,</em> rev ed<em>.</em> New York: Bantam Books.</p>

    <p>Grayson, J. 2004. <em>Freedom from Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder: A Personalized Recovery Program for Living with Uncertainty</em>. New York: Berkley Publishing Group.</p>

    <p>Hyman, B. M. and C. Pedrick. 2005. <em>The OCD Workbook: Your Guide to Breaking</em> <em>Free from Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder.</em> 2nd ed. Oakland, CA: New Harbinger Publications.</p>

    <p>Purdon, C. and D. A. Clark. 2005. <em>Overcoming Obsessive Thoughts: How to Gain Control of Your OCD</em>. Oakland, CA: New Harbinger Publications.</p>

    <p>Steketee, G. and R. O. Frost. 2007. <em>Compulsive Hoarding and Acquiring Workbook</em>. New York: Oxford University Press.</p>

    <p>Tolin, D., R. O. Frost, and G. Steketee. 2007. <em>Buried in Treasures: Help for Compulsive Acquiring, Saving, and Hoarding</em>. New York: Oxford University Press.</p>

    <p class="bh">Readings for Professionals</p>

    <p>Abramowitz, J. S. 2006: <em>Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder</em>. Cambridge, MA: Hogrefe &amp; Huber.</p>

    <p>Abramowitz, J. S. 2006: <em>Understanding and Treating Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder: A Cognitive Behavioral Approach</em>. Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum.</p>

    <p>Abramowitz, J. S. and A. C. Houts, eds. 2005. <em>Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder: Concepts and Controversies</em>. New York: Springer.</p>

    <p>Abramowitz, J. S., D. McKay, and S. Taylor. 2008. <em>Clinical Handbook of Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder and Related Problems</em>. Baltimore, MD: Johns Hopkins University Press.</p>

    <p>Abramowitz, J. S., D. McKay, and S. Taylor. 2008. <em>Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder: Subtypes and Spectrum Conditions</em>. New York: Elsevier.</p>

    <p>Antony, M. M., C. Purdon, and L. J. Summerfeldt. 2007. <em>Psychological Treatment of Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder: Fundamentals and Beyond</em>. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.</p>

    <p>Clark, D. A. 2004. <em>Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy for OCD</em>. New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <p>Rachman, S. 2003. <em>The Treatment of Obsessions</em>. New York: Oxford University Press.</p>

    <p>Rachman, S. 2006. <em>Fear of Contamination: Assessment and Treatment</em>. New York: Oxford University Press.</p>

    <p>Steketee, G., and R. O. Frost. 2007. <em>Compulsive Hoarding and Acquiring Therapist Guide</em>. New York: Oxford University Press.</p>

    <p>Wilhelm, S. and G. S. Steketee. 2006. <em>Cognitive Therapy for Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder: A Guide for Professionals</em>. Oakland, CA: New Harbinger Publications.</p>

    <p class="bh">Video Resources</p>

    <p>Antony, M. M. 2007. <em>Obsessive-Compulsive Behavior.</em> DVD. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.</p>

    <p>Wilson, R. R. 2005. <em>Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder.</em> DVD. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.</p>

    <h2 class="sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_12">Body Image and Eating Disorders</h2>

    <p class="bh">Self-Help Readings</p>

    <p>Cash. T. F. 2008. <em>The Body Image Workbook: An 8-Step Program for Learning to Like Your Looks.</em> 2nd ed<em>.</em> Oakland, CA: New Harbinger Publications.</p>

    <p>Claiborn, J. and C. Pedrick. 2002. <em>The BDD Workbook: Overcome Body Dysmorphic Disorder and End Body Image Obsessions</em>. Oakland, CA: New Harbinger Publications.</p>

    <p>Heffner, M. and G. H. Eifert. 2004. <em>The Anorexia Workbook: How to Accept Yourself, Heal Your Suffering, and Reclaim Your Life</em>. Oakland, CA: New Harbinger Publications.</p>

    <p>McCabe, R. E., T. L. McFarlane, and M. P. Olmsted. 2004. <em>The Overcoming Bulimia Workbook: Your Comprehensive, Step-by-Step Guide to Recovery</em>. Oakland, CA: New Harbinger Publications.</p>

    <p>Wilhelm, S. 2006. <em>Feeling Good About the Way You Look: A Program for Overcoming Body Image Problems</em>. New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <p class="bh">Readings for Professionals</p>

    <p>Cash, T. F. and T. Pruzinsky. 2004. <em>Body Image: A Handbook of Theory, Research, and Clinical Practice</em>. New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <p>Fairburn, C. G. 2008. <em>Cognitive Behavior Therapy and Eating Disorders</em>. New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <p>Fairburn, C. G. and K.D. Brownell. 2002. <em>Eating Disorders and Obesity: A Comprehensive Handbook.</em> 2nd ed. New York: Guilford Publications.</p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>