<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title/>
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:4ded8a26-02ff-4e89-a5a1-281d03d347b1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>

<body>
  <div class="chap" id="references">
    <h1 id="heading_id_2">References</h1>

    <p>Ackman, D. 2004. Martha Trial: ‘Change the Hold Music—Or Else’. <em>Forbes,</em> February 5. <a href="http://www.forbes.com/2004/02/05/cx_da_0205martha.html">http://www.forbes.com/2004/02/05/cx_da_0205martha.html</a>.</p>

    <p>American Psychiatric Association. 2000. <em>Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders</em> 4th. ed., text revision. Washington, DC: Author.</p>

    <p>Antony, M. M., F. Downie, and R. P. Swinson. 1998. Diagnostic issues and epidemiology in obsessive compulsive disorder. In R. P. Swinson, M. M. Antony, S. Rachman, and M. A. Richter (Eds.). <em>Obsessive Compulsive Disorder: Theory, Research, and Treatment,</em> 3–32. New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <p>Antony, M. M., R. E. McCabe, I. Leeuw, N. Sano, and R. P. Swinson. 2001. Effect of distraction and coping style on in vivo exposure for specific phobia of spiders. <em>Behaviour Research and Therapy</em> 39:1137-1150.</p>

    <p>Antony, M. M. and P. J. Norton. 2009. <em>The Anti-Anxiety Workbook: Proven Strategies to Overcome Worry, Panic, Phobias, and Obsessions</em>. New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <p>Antony, M. M., C. L. Purdon, V. Huta, and R. P. Swinson. 1998. Dimensions of perfectionism across the anxiety disorders. <em>Behaviour Research and Therapy</em> 36:1143-1154.</p>

    <p>Antony, M. M. and K. Rowa. 2008. <em>Social Anxiety Disorder: Psychological Approaches to Assessment and Treatment</em>. Göttingen, Germany: Hogrefe.</p>

    <p>Antony, M. M. and R. P. Swinson. 2008. <em>Shyness and Social Anxiety Workbook: Proven, Step-by-Step Techniques for Overcoming Your Fear.</em> 2nd ed. Oakland, CA: New Harbinger Publications.</p>

    <p>Ashbaugh, A., M. M. Antony, A. Liss, L. J. Summerfeldt, R. E. McCabe, and R. P. Swinson. 2007. Changes in perfectionism following cognitive-­behavioral treatment for social phobia. <em>Depression and Anxiety</em> 24:169-177.</p>

    <p>Bailey, Jr., G. R. 1998. Cognitive-behavioral treatment of obsessive-compulsive personality disorder. <em>Journal of Psychological Practice</em> 4:51-59.</p>

    <p>Bardone-Cone, A. M., S. A. Wonderlich, R. O. Frost, C. M. Bulik, J. E. Mitchell, S. Uppala, and H. Simonich. 2007. Perfectionism and eating disorders: Current status and future directions. <em>Clinical Psychology Review</em> 27:384-405.</p>

    <p>Barlow, D. H. 2002, <em>Anxiety and Its Disorders: The Nature and Treatment of Anxiety and Panic</em> 2nd ed. New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <p>Beck, A. T., A. J. Rush, B. F. Shaw, and G. Emery. 1979. <em>Cognitive Therapy of Depression</em>. New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <p>Bieling, P. J. and M. M. Antony. 2003. <em>Ending the Depression Cycle: A Step-by-Step Guide for Preventing Relapse</em><em>.</em> Oakland, CA: New Harbinger Publications.</p>

    <p>Birley, A. J., N. A. Gillespie, A. C. Heath, P. F. Sullivan, D. I. Boomsma, and N. G. Martin. 2006. Heritability and nineteen-year stability of long and short EPQ-R Neuroticism scales. <em>Personality and Individual Differences</em> 40:737-747.</p>

    <p>Bishop, S. R., M. Lau, S. Shapiro, L. Carlson, N. D. Anderson, J. Carmody, Z. V. Segal, S. Abbey, M. Speca, D. Velting, and G. Devins. 2004. Mindfulness: A proposed operational definition. <em>Clinical Psychology: Science and Practice</em> 11:230–241.</p>

    <p>Blatt, S. J., J. P. D’Afflitti, and D. M. Quinlan. 1976. Experiences of depression in normal young adults. <em>Journal of Abnormal Psychology</em> 85:383-389.</p>

    <p>Britton, J. C. and S. L. Rauch. 2009. Neuroanatomy and neuroimaging of anxiety disorders. In <em>Oxford Handbook of Anxiety and Related Disorders</em>, 97–110. eds. M. M. Antony and M. B. Stein. New York: Oxford University Press.</p>

    <p>Brownell, K. D. and J. Rodin. 1994. The dieting maelstrom: Is it possible and advisable to lose weight? <em>American Psychologist</em> 49:781–791.</p>

    <p>Bruch, M. A. 1989. Familial and developmental antecedents of social phobia: Issues and findings. <em>Clinical Psychology Review</em> 9:37–47.</p>

    <p>Burns, D. D. 1980. The perfectionist’s script for self-defeat. <em>Psychology</em> <em>Today</em>, November, 34-57.</p>

    <p>Chelminski, R. 2005. <em>The Perfectionist: Life and Death in Haute Cuisine</em>. London, UK: Penguin.</p>

    <p>Clark, D. M. and F. McManus. 2002. Information processing in social phobia. <em>Biological Psychiatry</em> 51:92-100.</p>

    <p>Cohn, J. F. and N. E. Adler. 1992. Female and male perceptions of ideal body shapes: Distorted views among Caucasian college students. <em>Psychology of Women Quarterly</em> 16:69-79.</p>

    <p>Cox, B. J., and M. W. Enns. 2003. Relative stability of dimensions of perfectionism in depression. <em>Canadian Journal of Behavioural Science</em> 35:124-132.</p>

    <p>Craighead, W. E., E. S. Sheets, A. L. Brosse, and S. S. Ilardi. 2007. Psychosocial treatments for major depressive disorder. In <em>A Guide to Treatments that Work.</em> 3rd ed., eds. P. E. Nathan and J. M. Gorman. New York: Oxford University Press.</p>

    <p>Cramer, P. and T. Steinwert. &gt;1998. Thin is good, fat is bad: How early does it begin? <em>Journal of Applied Developmental Psychology</em> 19:429-451.</p>

    <p>Crockenberg, S. 1985. Toddler’s reactions to maternal anger. <em>Merrill-Palmer Quarterly</em> 31:361–373.</p>

    <p>Dalrymple, K. L. and J. D. Herbert. 2007. Acceptance and Commitment Therapy for generalized social anxiety disorder: A pilot study. <em>Behavior Modification</em> 31:543-568.</p>

    <p>Deffenbacher, J. L., E. R. Oetting, and R. A. DiGiuseppe. 2002. Principles of empirically supported interventions applied to anger management. <em>Counseling Psychologist</em> 30:262-280.</p>

    <p>DiGiuseppe, R. and R. C. Tafrate. 2007. <em>Understanding Anger Disorders</em>. New York: Oxford University Press.</p>

    <p>Dougherty, D. D., S. L. Rauch, and M. A. Jenike. 2007. Pharmacological treatments for obsessive-compulsive disorder. In <em>A Guide to Treatments that Work</em>. 3rd ed., eds. P. E. Nathan and J. M. Gorman. New York: Oxford University Press.</p>

    <p>Eddy, K. T., M. Hennessey, and H. Thompson-Brenner. 2007. Eating pathology in East African women: The role of media exposure and globalization. <em>Journal of Nervous and Mental Disease</em> 195:196-202.</p>

    <p>Eifert, G. H., M. McKay, and J. P. Forsyth. 2005. <em>ACT on Life, Not on Anger: The New Acceptance and Commitment Therapy Guide for Problem Anger.</em> Oakland, CA: New Harbinger Publications.</p>

    <p>Enns, M. W. and B. J. Cox. 2005. Perfectionism, stressful life events, and the 1-year outcome of depression. <em>Cognitive Therapy and Research</em> 29:541-553.</p>

    <p>Feindler, E. L. 2006. <em>Anger-Related Disorders: A Practitioner’s Guide to Comparative Treatments</em>. New York: Springer.</p>

    <p>Flett, G. L., A. Besser, R. A. Davis, and P. L. Hewitt. 2003. Dimensions of perfectionism, unconditional self-acceptance, and depression. <em>Journal of Rational-Emotive and Cognitive-Behavior Therapy</em> 21:119-138.</p>

    <p>Flett, G. L. and P. L. Hewitt. 2002. Perfectionism and maladjustment: An overview of theoretical, definitional, and treatment issues. In <em>Perfectionism: Theory, Research, and Treatment</em>, G. L. Flett and P. L. Hewitt, eds., 5–31. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.</p>

    <p>Forsyth, J. P. and G. H. Eifert. 2007. <em>The Mindfulness and Acceptance Workbook for Anxiety: A Guide to Breaking Free from Anxiety, Phobias, and Worry Using Acceptance and Commitment Therapy</em>. Oakland, CA: New Harbinger Publications.</p>

    <p>Frost, R. O., P. Marten, C. Lahart, and R. Rosenblate. 1990. The dimensions of perfectionism. <em>Cognitive Therapy and Research</em> 14:449-468.</p>

    <p>Furmark, T., M. Tillfors, I. Marteinsdottir, H. Fischer, A. Pissiota, B. Långström, and M. Fredrikson. 2002. Common changes in cerebral blood flow in patients with social phobia treated with citalopram or cognitive-behavioral therapy. <em>Archives of General Psychiatry</em> 59:425–433.</p>

    <p>Gorenstein, E. E., F. A. Tager, P. A. Shapiro, C. Monk, and R. P. Sloan. 2007. Cognitive-behavior therapy for reduction of persistent anger. <em>Cognitive and Behavioral Practice</em> 14:168-184.</p>

    <p>Hassmén, P., N. Koivula, and A. Uutela. 2000. Physical exercise and psychological well-being: A population study in Finland. <em>Preventive Medicine: An International Journal Devoted to Practice and Theory</em> 30:17-25.</p>

    <p>Hayes, S. C., V. M. Follette, and M. M. Linehan. 2004. <em>Mindfulness and Acceptance: Expanding the Cognitive-Behavioral Tradition.</em> New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <p>Hayes, S. C., K. D. Strosahl, and K. G. Wilson. 1999. <em>Acceptance and Commitment Therapy: An Experiential Approach to Behavior Change.</em> New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <p>Heffner, M. and G. H. Eifert. 2004. <em>The Anorexia Workbook: How to Accept Yourself, Heal Your Suffering, and Reclaim Your Life</em>. Oakland, CA: New Harbinger Publications.</p>

    <p>Herman, C. P. and J. Polivy. 1984. A boundary model for the regulation of eating. In A. J. Stunkard and E. Steller, eds., <em>Eating and Its Disorders,</em> 918-927. New York: Raven Press.</p>

    <p>Hewitt, P. L. and G. L. Flett. 1990. Perfectionism and depression: A multidimensional analysis. <em>Journal of Social Behavior and Personality</em> 5:423-438.</p>

    <p>———. 1993. Dimensions of perfectionism, daily stress, and depression: A test of a specific vulnerability hypothesis. <em>Journal of Abnormal Psychology</em> 102:58-65.</p>

    <p>Hill, A. J. 2002. Prevalence and demographics of dieting. In <em>Eating Disorders and Obesity: A Comprehensive Handbook</em>. 2nd ed., eds. C. G. Fairburn and K. D. Brownell, 80-83. New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <p>Hill, N. 1937. <em>Think and Grow Rich</em>. Meriden, CT: The Ralston Society.</p>

    <p>Hill, R. W., K. McIntire, and V. R. Bacharach. 1997. Perfectionism and the big five factors. <em>Journal of Social Behavior and Personality</em> 12:257-270.</p>

    <p>Huesmann, L. R. and L. D. Taylor. 2006. The role of media violence in violent behavior. <em>Annual Review of Public Health</em> 27:393-415.</p>

    <p>Izard, C. E. 1991. <em>The Psychology of Emotions</em>. New York: Plenum Press.</p>

    <p>Jang, K. L., W. J. Livesley, and P. A. Vernon. 1996. Heritability of the big five personality dimensions and their facets: A twin study. <em>Journal of Personality,</em> 64:577-591.</p>

    <p>Kabat-Zinn, J. 1990. <em>Full Catastrophe Living: Using the Wisdom of Your Body and Mind to Face Stress, Pain, and Illness.</em> New York: Dell Publishing.</p>

    <p>———. 1994. <em>Wherever You Go, There You Are: Mindfulness Meditation in Everyday Life.</em> New York: Hyperion.</p>

    <p>Kain, K. 1995. <em>Movement Never Lies: An Autobiography</em>. Toronto: McLelland and Stewart.</p>

    <p>Kandel, E. R. 1983. From metapsychology to molecular biology: Explorations into the nature of anxiety. <em>American Journal of Psychiatry</em> 140:1277–1293.</p>

    <p>Katzmarzky, P. T. and C. Davis. 2001. Thinness and body shape of Playboy centerfolds from 1978 to 1998. <em>International Journal of Obesity</em> 25:590-592.</p>

    <p>Kessler, R. C., P. Berglund, O. Demler, R. Jin, and E. E. Walters. 2005. Lifetime prevalence and age-of-onset distributions of DSM-IV disorders in the National Comorbidity Survey Replication. <em>Archives of General Psychiatry</em> 62:593-602.</p>

    <p>Keys, A., J. Brozek, A. Henschel, O. Michelson, and H. L. Taylor. 1950. <em>The Biology of Human Starvation</em> Vol. 1. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press.</p>

    <p>Killen, J. D., C. B. Taylor, M. J. Telch, K. E. Saylor, D. J. Maron, T. N. Robinson. 1986. Self-induced vomiting and laxative and diuretic use among teenagers: Precursors of the binge-purge syndrome. <em>Journal of the American Medical Association</em> 25:1447–1449.</p>

    <p>Laliberté, M., M. Newton, R. McCabe, and J. S. Mills. 2007. Controlling your weight versus controlling your lifestyle: How beliefs about weight control affect risk for disordered eating, body dissatisfaction, and self-esteem. <em>Cognitive Therapy and Research.</em> 31:853-869.</p>

    <p>Lemerise, E. A. and K. A. Dodge. 2008. The development of anger and hostile interactions. In M. Lewis, J. M. Haviland and L. F. Barrett, eds., <em>Handbook of Emotions.</em> 3rd ed<em>.</em> New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <p>Marcks, B. A. and D. W. Woods. 2007. Role of thought-related beliefs and coping strategies in the escalation of intrusive thoughts: An analog to obsessive-compulsive disorder. <em>Behaviour Research and Therapy</em> 45:2640-2651.</p>

    <p>Mathew, S. J., J. M. Amiel, and H. A. Sackeim. 2005. Electroconvulsive therapy in treatment-resistant depression. <em>Primary Psychiatry,</em> 12:52-56.</p>

    <p>McCrae, R. R. and P. T. Costa. 2003. <em>Personality in adulthood: A five-factor theory perspective.</em> 2nd ed. New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <p>McKay, M., Davis, M. and P. Fanning. 2009. <em>Messages: The Communication Skills</em> <em>Book.</em> 3rd ed. Oakland, CA: New Harbinger Publications.</p>

    <p>Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary. 2008. <em>Perfectionism,</em> <a href="http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/perfectionism">http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/perfectionism</a>. June 26, 2008.</p>

    <p>Mogg, K. and B. P. Bradley. 2005. Attentional bias in generalized anxiety disorder versus depressive disorder. <em>Cognitive Therapy and Research</em> 29:29-45.</p>

    <p>Moscovitch, D. A., M. M. Antony, and R. P. Swinson. 2009. Exposure-based treatments for anxiety disorders: Theory and process. In M. M. Antony and M. B. Stein, eds., <em>Oxford Handbook of Anxiety and Related Disorders</em>, 461–475. New York: Oxford University Press.</p>

    <p>Nasser, M. 1986. Comparative study of the prevalence of abnormal eating attitudes among Arab female students of both London and Cairo universities. <em>Psychological Medicine</em> 16:621–625.</p>

    <p>Ng, R. M. K. 2005. Cognitive therapy for obsessive-compulsive personality disorder: A pilot study in Hong Kong Chinese patients. <em>Hong Kong Journal of Psychiatry</em> 15:50-53.</p>

    <p>Phillips, K. A. and E. Hollander. 2008. Treating body dysmorphic disorder with medication: Evidence, misconceptions, and a suggested approach. <em>Body Image</em> 5:13-27.</p>

    <p>Platte, P., J. F. Zelten, and A. J. Stunkard. 2000. Body image in the Old World Amish: A people separate from “the world.” <em>International Journal of Eating Disorders</em> 28:408-414.</p>

    <p>Pleva, J. and T. D. Wade. 2007. Guided self-help versus pure self-help for perfectionism: A randomized controlled trial. <em>Behaviour Research and Therapy</em> 45:849-861.</p>

    <p>Polivy, J. and C. P. Herman. 1993. Etiology of binge eating: Psychological mechanisms. In C. G. Fairburn and G. T. Wilson, eds., <em>Binge Eating: Nature, Assessment, and Treatment,</em> 173-205<em>.</em> New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <p>Polizzi, T. N. 2008. An examination of mindfulness-based cognitive therapy for angry drivers. <em>Dissertation Abstracts International: Section B: The Sciences and Engineering</em> 68(8-B):5588.</p>

    <p>Purdon, C. 2004. Empirical investigations of thought suppression in OCD. <em>Journal of Behavior Therapy and Experimental Psychiatry,</em> 35:121-136.</p>

    <p>Purdon, C. and D. A. Clark. 2002. The need to control thoughts. In R. O. Frost and G. Steketee, <em>Cognitive Approaches to Obsessions and Compulsions: Theory, Assessment and Treatment,</em> 29-43. Amsterdam, Netherlands: Pergamon.</p>

    <p>Purdon, C., K. Rowa, and M. M. Antony. 2005. Thought suppression and its effects on thought frequency, appraisal and mood state in individuals with obsessive-compulsive disorder. <em>Behaviour Research and Therapy</em> 43:93-108.</p>

    <p>Rachman, S. J. 1976. The passing of the two-stage theory of fear and avoidance: Fresh possibilities. <em>Behaviour Research and Therapy</em> 14:125-131.</p>

    <p>Radke-Yarrow, M. and G. Kochanska. 1990. Anger in young children. In N. L. Stein, B. Levinthal and T. Trabasso, eds., <em>Psychological and Biological Approaches to Emotion,</em> 297-310. Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.</p>

    <p>Riley, C., M. Lee, Z. Cooper, C. G. Fairburn, and R. Shafran. 2007. A randomized controlled trial of cognitive-behaviour therapy for clinical perfectionism: A preliminary study. <em>Behaviour Research and Therapy</em> 45:221-2231.</p>

    <p>Rodebaugh, T. L., R. M. Holaway, and R. G. Heimberg. 2004. The treatment of social anxiety disorder. <em>Clinical Psychology Review</em> 24:883-908.</p>

    <p>Roemer, L. and S. M. Orsillo. 2007. An open trial of an acceptance-based behavior therapy for generalized anxiety disorder. <em>Behavior Therapy</em> 38:72–85.</p>

    <p>Rowa, K., R. E. McCabe, and M. M. Antony. 2006. Specific phobias. In F. Andrasik, ed., <em>Comprehensive Handbook of Personality and Psychopathology, Volume 2: Adult psychopathology,</em> 154-168. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley and Sons.</p>

    <p>Roy-Byrne, P. P. and D. S. Cowley. 2007. Pharmacological treatments for panic disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, specific phobia, and social anxiety disorder. In <em>A Guide to Treatments that Work</em>, 3rd ed., eds. P. E. Nathan and J. M. Gorman, 395-430. New York: Oxford University Press.</p>

    <p>Rudolph, S. G., G. L. Flett, and P. L. Hewitt. 2007. Perfectionism and deficits in cognitive emotion regulation. <em>Journal of Rational-Emotive and Cognitive-Behavior Therapy</em> 25:343-357.</p>

    <p>Serretti, A., R. Calati, B. Ferrari, and D. De Ronchi. 2007. Personality and genetics. <em>Current Psychiatry Reviews</em> 3:147-159.</p>

    <p>Snyder, J., L. Schrepferman, M. Brooker, and M. Stoolmiller. 2007. The roles of anger, conflict with parents and peers, and social reinforcement in the early development of physical aggression. In Cavell, T.A., and K.T. Malcolm, eds., <em>Anger, aggression and interventions for interpersonal violence,</em> 187-214. Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum.</p>

    <p>Stahl, S. M. 2008. <em>Depression and Bipolar Disorder: Stahl’s Essential Psychopharmacology.</em> 3rd ed. New York: Cambridge University Press.</p>

    <p>Stein, M. B. and D. J. Stein. 2008. Social anxiety disorder. <em>Lancet</em> 371:1115-1125.</p>

    <p>Sternberg, C. R., and J. J. Campos. 1990. The development of anger expressions in infancy. In <em>Psychological and Biological Approaches to Emotion,</em> eds<em>.</em> N. L. Stein, B. Leventhal, and T. Trabasso. Mawah, NJ: Erlbaum.</p>

    <p>Stewart, E. S., E. Jenike, and M. A. Jenike. 2009. Biological treatment for obsessive-compulsive disorder. In <em>Oxford Handbook of Anxiety and Related Disorders</em>, 375–390.eds. M. M. Antony and M. B. Stein. New York: Oxford University Press.</p>

    <p>Sullivan, P. F., M. C. Neale, and K. S. Kendler. 2000. Genetic epidemiology of major depression: Review and meta-analysis. <em>American Journal of Psychiatry</em> 157:1552-1562.</p>

    <p>Teasdale, J. D., Z. V. Segal, J. M. G. Williams, V. Ridgeway, J. Soulsby, and M. Lau. 2000. Prevention of relapse/recurrence in major depression by mindfulness-based cognitive therapy. <em>Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology</em> 68:615-623.</p>

    <p>Thase, M. E. Forthcoming. Neurobiological aspects of depression. In <em>Handbook of Depression.</em> 2nd ed<em>.,</em> eds. I. H. Gotlib and C. L. Hammen. New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <p>Thase, M. E., J. C. Nelson, G. I. Papakostas, and M. J. Gitlin. 2007. Augmentation strategies in the treatment of major depressive disorder. <em>CNS Spectrums</em> 12 (suppl. 22):1–20.</p>

    <p>Tozzi, F., S. H. Aggen, B. M. Neale, C. B. Anderson, S. E. Mazzeo, M. C. Neale, and C. M. Bulik. 2004. The structure of perfectionism: A twin study. <em>Behavior Genetics</em> 34:483-494.</p>

    <p>van Grootheest, D., D. C. Cath, A. T. Beekman, and D. I. Boomsma. 2005. Twin studies on obsessive-compulsive disorder: A review. <em>Twin Research and Human Genetics</em> 5:450-458.</p>

    <p>Weissman, M. M., J. C. Markowitz, and G. L. Klerman 2000. <em>Comprehensive Guide to Interpersonal Psychotherapy</em>. New York: Basic Books.</p>

    <p>Weltzin, T. E., N. Weisensel, D. Franczyk, K. Burnett, C. Klitz, and P. Bean. 2005. Eating disorders in men: Update. <em>Journal of Men’s Health and Gender</em> 2:186-193.</p>

    <p>Whittal, M. L., W. S. Agras, and R. A. Gould. 1999. Bulimia nervosa: A meta-analysis of psychosocial and pharmacological treatments. <em>Behavior Therapy</em> 30:117-135.</p>

    <p>Wilde, O. 2005. <em>The Picture of Dorian Gray</em>. In <em>The Complete Works of Oscar Wilde: Volume III: The Picture of Dorian Gray: The 1890 and 1891 Texts</em>. New York: Oxford University Press.</p>

    <p>Williams, J., T. Hadjistavropoulos, and D. Sharpe. 2006. A meta-analysis of psychological and pharmacological treatments for body dysmorphic disorder. <em>Behaviour Research and Therapy</em> 44:99-111.</p>

    <p>Williams, M., J. Teasdale, Z. Segal, and J. Kabat-Zinn. 2007. <em>The Mindful Way Through Depression: Freeing Yourself from Chronic Unhappiness</em>. New York: Guilford Press.</p>

    <p>Wilson, G. T. and C. G. Fairburn. 2007. Treatments for eating disorders. In <em>A Guide to Treatments That Work</em>, 3rd ed., eds. P. E. Nathan and J. M. Gorman, 579-609. New York: Oxford University Press.</p>

    <p>Winfrey, O. 2000. Oprah’s Cut with Martha Stewart. <em>Oprah Magazine,</em> September. <a href="http://www.oprah.com/omagazine/200008/omag_200008_martha.jhtml">http://www.oprah.com/omagazine/200008/omag_200008_martha.jhtml</a>.</p>

    <p>Wittchen, H. U. and J. Hoyer. 2001. Generalized anxiety disorder: Nature and course. <em>The Journal of Clinical Psychiatry</em> 62:15-21.</p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>