<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title/>
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:4ded8a26-02ff-4e89-a5a1-281d03d347b1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>

<body style="">
  <div class="chap" id="squibs">
    <p class="rv">“An excellent description of perfectionism and its self-sabotaging disadvantages. Presents many efficient and effective cognitive-behavioral methods for dealing with and minimizing this affliction. Quite practical and thorough—but nicely flexible and unperfectionistic!”</p>

    <p class="rvt">—Albert Ellis, Ph.D., president of the Albert Ellis Institute in New York City and author of <em>A Guide to Rational Living</em></p>

    <p class="rv">“All of us know someone who is a perfectionist and most of us have joked about it at one time or another. For some it can be a useful trait that ensures some organization in a disorganized world. But for those individuals coping with too much perfectionism, it can be a curse that takes the pleasure out of life and in some cases can lead to severe anxiety disorders. Now two leading mental health practitioners and clinical scientists provide up-to-date, scientifically validated skills for overcoming perfectionism and regaining control of one’s life. This long overdue book should relieve much suffering and enhance functioning for the millions of individuals dealing with excessive perfectionism.”</p>

    <p class="rvt">—David H. Barlow, Ph.D., professor of psychology and director of the Center for Anxiety and Related Disorders at Boston University</p>

    <p class="rv">“<em>When Perfect Isn’t Good Enough</em> surpasses any of the other books on perfectionism in quality and scope. Antony and Swinson have synthesized what we know about perfectionism and used it to create the first well-integrated approach to reduce the suffering caused by it. The chapters clearly define perfectionism and provide concrete steps to master this demon. Final chapters focus on how perfectionism can manifest itself in other disorders, demonstrating how pernicious this phenomenon can be—and why such a book is so essential. This book will be invaluable to people suffering from perfectionism and to the therapists trying to help them.”</p>

    <p class="rvt">—Randy O. Frost, Ph.D., professor of psychology at Smith College in Northampton, MA</p>

    <p class="rv">“<em>When Perfect Isn’t Good Enough</em> is an excellent source for people looking to adjust their standards and expectations and, by so doing, increase the joy in their lives. It is easy to read, filled with solid advice, and based on the best scientific research. Unlike most other self-help books, the many exercises suggested by the authors provide the reader with the tools to put these words into action. Antony and Swinson have produced a thorough and systemic manual to lead the perfectionist out of the misery of depression, anger, worry, and social anxiety, and into the promised land of realistic self-evaluation, self-esteem, and positive interpersonal relations. Bravo!”</p>

    <p class="rvt">—Richard Heimberg, Ph.D., Adult Anxiety Clinic in the department of psychology at Temple University in Philadelphia, PA</p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>