<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en-GB" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
 <head>
  <title>
   B31483_FM
  </title>
  <link href="css/explorer-css-sk.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <!-- kobo-style -->
  <style id="koboSpanStyle" type="text/css" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   .koboSpan { -webkit-text-combine: inherit; }
  </style>
 </head>
 <body id="B31483_FM">
  <div id="_idContainer003">
   <h1 id="_idParaDest-4">
    <a id="_idTextAnchor003">
    </a>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.1.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     Contributors
    </span>
   </h1>
   <h1 id="_idParaDest-5">
    <a id="_idTextAnchor004">
    </a>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.2.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     About the authors
    </span>
   </h1>
   <p>
    <strong class="bold">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.3.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      Anjanava Biswas
     </span>
    </strong>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.4.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     is an award-winning senior AI specialist solutions architect with over 17 years of industry experience.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.4.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     Specializing in machine learning, generative AI, natural language processing, deep learning, data analytics, and cloud architecture, he partners with large enterprises to build and scale advanced AI systems in the cloud.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.4.3" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     Anjanava is widely recognized for his contributions to the field of applied AI.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.4.4" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     He has published research in multiple scientific journals and actively contributes to open-source AI/ML projects.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.4.5" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     His professional accolades include Fellowships with BCS (UK), the IET (UK), IETE (India), and he is a senior IEEE member.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.4.6" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     A frequent public speaker, Anjanava has held key positions at industry giants like IBM and Oracle Corp.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.4.7" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     Originally from India, he now resides in San Diego, CA, with his wife and son, where he continues to innovate and inspire within the
    </span>
    <span class="No-Break">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.5.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      tech community.
     </span>
    </span>
   </p>
   <p>
    <em class="italic">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.6.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      I would like to express my heartfelt gratitude to everyone who has accompanied me on this generative AI journey.
     </span>
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.6.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      To my colleagues, both past and present, who challenged my thinking and shared in the excitement of this rapidly evolving field—your collaboration has been invaluable.
     </span>
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.6.3" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      To my mentors, who saw potential in my ideas and guided me with wisdom and patience—your belief in me made this
     </span>
    </em>
    <span class="No-Break">
     <em class="italic">
      <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.7.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
       book possible.
      </span>
     </em>
    </span>
   </p>
   <p>
    <em class="italic">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.8.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      To my remarkable son, whose eleven-year-old imagination reminds me daily that the future belongs to those who can dream it.
     </span>
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.8.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      Your questions force me to distill complexity into clarity—perhaps the most valuable skill in understanding generative AI.
     </span>
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.8.3" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      And to my wife, my steadfast companion through late nights and breakthrough moments—your patience has been the silent foundation upon which these ideas have
     </span>
    </em>
    <span class="No-Break">
     <em class="italic">
      <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.9.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
       been built.
      </span>
     </em>
    </span>
   </p>
   <p>
    <em class="italic">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.10.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      To my mother, whose wisdom transcends technology and whose encouragement knows no bounds.
     </span>
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.10.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      And to my father, whose absence is felt deeply but whose influence remains in every challenge I choose to accept.
     </span>
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.10.3" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      I know you would have turned these pages
     </span>
    </em>
    <span class="No-Break">
     <em class="italic">
      <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.11.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
       with pride.
      </span>
     </em>
    </span>
   </p>
   <p>
    <em class="italic">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.12.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      As Ada Lovelace once observed, “The Analytical Engine weaves algebraic patterns, just as the Jacquard loom weaves flowers and leaves.”
     </span>
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.12.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      Today’s generative AI continues this beautiful interplay between human creativity and computational possibility—a dance I have been privileged
     </span>
    </em>
    <span class="No-Break">
     <em class="italic">
      <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.13.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
       to document.
      </span>
     </em>
    </span>
   </p>
   <p>
    <em class="italic">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.14.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      For everyone who believes that technology should elevate our humanity rather than diminish it—this book is
     </span>
    </em>
    <span class="No-Break">
     <em class="italic">
      <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.15.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
       for you.
      </span>
     </em>
    </span>
   </p>
   <p>
    <em class="italic">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.16.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      –
     </span>
    </em>
    <span class="No-Break">
     <em class="italic">
      <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.17.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
       Anjanava Biswas
      </span>
     </em>
    </span>
   </p>
   <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.18.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   </span>
   <p>
    <strong class="bold">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.19.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      Wrick Talukdar
     </span>
    </strong>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.20.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     is a visionary technology leader in generative
    </span>
    <strong class="bold">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.21.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      artificial intelligence
     </span>
    </strong>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.22.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     (
    </span>
    <strong class="bold">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.23.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      AI
     </span>
    </strong>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.24.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     ) at Amazon, with over two decades of global experience in AI, cloud computing, and product leadership.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.24.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     A pioneer in AI-driven transformation, he has led large-scale modernization initiatives that drive enterprise growth and impact millions worldwide.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.24.3" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     He has spearheaded the productization of award-winning AI/ML technologies, now deployed at scale for Fortune 500 companies, shaping real-world
    </span>
    <span class="No-Break">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.25.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      AI applications.
     </span>
    </span>
   </p>
   <p>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.26.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     A recognized figure in AI research, Wrick’s work in generative AI, multimodality, natural language processing, and computer vision is widely cited and referenced in the field.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.26.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     As a senior IEEE member, Chair, and panelist in multiple industry forums, he advises global committees like CTSoc Industry Forums and NIC, setting industry standards and shaping AI’s role for the future.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.26.3" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     He frequently presents his innovations at premier conferences such as World Technology Summit, IEEE HKN, ICCE, CERAWeek, and ADIPEC, bridging cutting-edge research with real-world AI applications to accelerate
    </span>
    <span class="No-Break">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.27.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      industry-wide innovation.
     </span>
    </span>
   </p>
   <p>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.28.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     Deeply rooted in his computer science background, he co-chairs IEEE NIC to empower young professionals.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.28.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     As an author and thought leader, he continues to push AI’s boundaries, inspiring future innovators.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.28.3" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     Wrick lives in California with
    </span>
    <span class="No-Break">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.29.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      his family.
     </span>
    </span>
   </p>
   <p class="author-quote">
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.30.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     In the words of Marian Wright Edelman, "Education is for improving the lives of others and for leaving your community and world better than you found it."
    </span>
   </p>
   <p class="author-quote">
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.31.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     I am profoundly grateful to everyone who has supported, guided, and inspired me throughout this journey.
    </span>
   </p>
   <p class="author-quote">
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.32.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     To my family—my parents, my son, and my wife—your unwavering belief in me has been the bedrock of my strength.
    </span>
   </p>
   <p class="author-quote">
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.33.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     To my son, whose endless curiosity about “what Dad is working on” reminded me every day why discovery matters—your wonder and questions sparked ideas when I needed them most, and your imagination reminded me of the limitless possibilities this work can unlock.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.33.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     You’ve taught me that inspiration often comes in the form of a simple question from someone who believes you can explain the universe.
    </span>
   </p>
   <p class="author-quote">
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.34.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     To my parents, whose unwavering support, confidence, and hunger to understand a rapidly evolving world reminds me that knowledge is meant to be shared, not stored.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.34.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     Your belief in lifelong learning has been my moral compass, and your pride in my work has been one of my greatest motivators.
    </span>
   </p>
   <p class="author-quote">
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.35.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     And to my wife, whose quiet strength, patience, and constant encouragement made this journey not only possible, but meaningful.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.35.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     Your presence through long nights, your unwavering faith through every obstacle, and your calming reassurance gave me the clarity to finish what I started.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.35.3" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     You’ve been my anchor and my inspiration.
    </span>
   </p>
   <p class="author-quote">
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.36.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     To the AI research community—your relentless pursuit of innovation continues to inspire and humble me.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.36.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     After years of writing research papers, technical articles, and blogs, authoring my first book has been a transformative experience—one that challenged me to translate complexity into clarity and ideas into impact.
    </span>
   </p>
   <p class="author-quote">
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.37.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     And to my friends and well-wishers—your presence through every challenge turned obstacles into milestones.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.37.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     Whether through a kind word, a shared insight, or simply showing up when it mattered most, you reminded me that no journey is ever truly walked alone.
    </span>
   </p>
   <p class="author-quote">
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.38.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     This book is a tribute to each of you.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.38.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     You’ve walked with me, believed in my vision, and helped shape every word on these pages.
    </span>
   </p>
   <p class="author-quote">
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.39.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     – Wrick Talukdar
    </span>
   </p>
  </div>
 </body>
</html>
