<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en-GB" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
 <head>
  <title>
   B31483_FM
  </title>
  <link href="css/explorer-css-sk.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <!-- kobo-style -->
  <style id="koboSpanStyle" type="text/css" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   .koboSpan { -webkit-text-combine: inherit; }
  </style>
 </head>
 <body id="B31483_FM">
  <div id="_idContainer003">
   <h1 id="_idParaDest-3">
    <a id="_idTextAnchor002">
    </a>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.1.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     Foreword 2
    </span>
   </h1>
   <p>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.2.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     The world was caught by surprise when ChatGPT first launched in November 2022.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.2.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     It was an aha moment—suddenly, it felt like you were conversing with a real person.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.2.3" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     The responses weren’t just fluent; they were informative and useful.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.2.4" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     Since then, the technology has evolved at an astonishing pace, with hundreds of millions of people using ChatGPT and similar systems as writing assistants or to find answers that aren’t easily discoverable through traditional
    </span>
    <span class="No-Break">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.3.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      web searches.
     </span>
    </span>
   </p>
   <p>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.4.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     However, when you ask a human assistant to book travel, they don’t just talk about it—they actually book the flights and hotel.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.4.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     This is the essence of agentic systems.
    </span>
    <strong class="bold">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.5.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      Large language models
     </span>
    </strong>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.6.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     (
    </span>
    <strong class="bold">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.7.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      LLMs
     </span>
    </strong>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.8.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     ), like those used in ChatGPT, can be repurposed not just to generate text but to act—executing tasks by generating code, calling APIs, and interacting with web services.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.8.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     Just as the World Wide Web transitioned from serving static content to enabling interactive applications, agentic systems are poised to revolutionize how we interact
    </span>
    <span class="No-Break">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.9.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      with AI.
     </span>
    </span>
   </p>
   <p>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.10.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     Unlike other books that focus primarily on the theory behind agentic systems, this book emphasizes real-world implementation.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.10.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     The authors provide hands-on code examples, practical use cases, and step-by-step guidance on integrating agentic workflows into organizations to solve real business challenges.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.10.3" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     This book serves as an accessible yet comprehensive resource for software developers, ML engineers, technical leads, directors, and other decision-makers looking to get up to speed on
    </span>
    <span class="No-Break">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.11.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      agentic systems.
     </span>
    </span>
   </p>
   <p>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.12.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     Those who have used AI assistants like ChatGPT understand their value as writing and coding assistants, where users validate the output before taking action.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.12.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     However, AI can sometimes generate incorrect answers with such confidence that users may mistakenly trust them.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.12.3" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     Unlike humans, who often hedge their statements with phrases like “I’m not sure, but I think…”, AI systems lack built-in uncertainty indicators.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.12.4" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     We want to trust that our AI agents will take the correct actions and ask us when in doubt.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.12.5" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     This book delves into the crucial issues of trust, transparency, explainability, and reliability, as well as ethical considerations such as bias and safety.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.12.6" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     It describes how agentic systems can be personalized and made context aware, and how they can plan and react to the results of
    </span>
    <span class="No-Break">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.13.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      their actions.
     </span>
    </span>
   </p>
   <p>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.14.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     As somebody that has been working on artificial intelligence for decades, I believe this book will be a great resource for students, researchers, and professionals alike, charting a clear path forward in an era profoundly influenced by intelligent systems.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.14.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     I first met Wrick Talukdar at an IEEE conference panel, and I was immediately impressed by his ability to bridge the gap between theory and practice.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.14.3" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     In
    </span>
    <em class="italic">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.15.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      Building Agentic AI Systems
     </span>
    </em>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.16.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     , he and Anjanava Biswas do just that—offering a practical guide to the future of
    </span>
    <span class="No-Break">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.17.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      AI-driven automation.
     </span>
    </span>
   </p>
   <p>
    <em class="italic">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.18.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      Dr.
     </span>
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.18.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      Alex Acero,
     </span>
    </em>
   </p>
   <p>
    <em class="italic">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.19.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      Member of the National Academy
     </span>
    </em>
    <span class="No-Break">
     <em class="italic">
      <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.20.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
       of Engineering
      </span>
     </em>
    </span>
    <span class="No-Break">
     <em class="italic">
      <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.21.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
       ,
      </span>
     </em>
    </span>
   </p>
   <p>
    <span class="No-Break">
     <em class="italic">
      <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.22.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
       IEEE Fellow
      </span>
     </em>
    </span>
   </p>
  </div>
 </body>
</html>
