<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en-GB" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
 <head>
  <title>
   B31483_FM
  </title>
  <link href="css/explorer-css-sk.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <!-- kobo-style -->
  <style id="koboSpanStyle" type="text/css" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   .koboSpan { -webkit-text-combine: inherit; }
  </style>
 </head>
 <body id="B31483_FM">
  <div id="_idContainer003">
   <h1 id="_idParaDest-6">
    <a id="_idTextAnchor005">
    </a>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.1.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     About the reviewers
    </span>
   </h1>
   <p>
    <strong class="bold">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.2.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      Manjit Chakraborty
     </span>
    </strong>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.3.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     is a seasoned technology leader with extensive experience in driving digital transformation in the financial services sector.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.3.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     As an enterprise solutions architect at
    </span>
    <strong class="bold">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.4.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      Amazon Web Services
     </span>
    </strong>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.5.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     (
    </span>
    <strong class="bold">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.6.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      AWS
     </span>
    </strong>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.7.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     ), he spearheads initiatives to modernize legacy systems and design innovative cloud-native solutions for the largest financial institutions across the globe.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.7.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     With a proven track record in business and technical architecture, Manjit excels in delivering actionable insights through data-driven analysis.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.7.3" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     His expertise spans diverse areas, including cloud migration, mainframe modernization strategies, system integrations, hybrid deployments, data analytics, and business intelligence. Manjit is a sought-after public speaker, having delivered presentations at numerous prestigious technical forums.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.7.4" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     He is an accomplished author and has also contributed to various technology publications, sharing his knowledge and insights with the broader tech community. Manjit is a distinguished reviewer, critically evaluating industry submissions and scholarly research papers on a regular basis, significantly influencing technological advancements and academic discourse.   He is based out of the Sunshine State, Florida, in the
    </span>
    <span class="No-Break">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.8.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      United States.
     </span>
    </span>
   </p>
   <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.9.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   </span>
   <p>
    <strong class="bold">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.10.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      Martin Yanev
     </span>
    </strong>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.11.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     is a highly accomplished software engineer with nearly a decade of experience across diverse industries, including aerospace and medical technology.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.11.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     Over his illustrious career, Martin has carved a niche for himself in developing and integrating cutting-edge software solutions for critical domains such as air traffic control and chromatography systems.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.11.3" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     Renowned as an esteemed instructor and computer science professor at Fitchburg State University, he possesses a deep understanding of the full spectrum of OpenAI APIs and exhibits mastery in constructing, training, and fine-tuning AI systems.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.11.4" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     As a widely recognized author, Martin has shared his expertise to help others navigate the complexities of AI development.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.11.5" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     With his exceptional track record and multifaceted skill set, Martin continues to propel innovation and drive transformative advancements in the field of
    </span>
    <span class="No-Break">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.12.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      software engineering.
     </span>
    </span>
   </p>
  </div>
 </body>
</html>
