<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?cxml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en-GB" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
 <head>
  <title>
   B31483_FM
  </title>
  <link href="css/explorer-css-sk.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <!-- kobo-style -->
  <style id="koboSpanStyle" type="text/css" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   .koboSpan { -webkit-text-combine: inherit; }
  </style>
 </head>
 <body id="B31483_FM">
  <div id="_idContainer003">
   <h1 id="_idParaDest-2">
    <a id="_idTextAnchor001">
    </a>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.1.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     Foreword
    </span>
   </h1>
   <p>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.2.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     Artificial intelligence has always been driven by a profound aspiration: creating systems that not only perform predefined tasks but can also reason, adapt, and act with autonomy.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.2.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     With the rise of Generative AI and agentic systems, we are witnessing a transformative moment, one where artificial agents can reflect upon their experiences, strategize effectively, and collaborate seamlessly.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.2.3" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     This book arrives precisely at this pivotal juncture, offering a comprehensive exploration of this emerging and
    </span>
    <span class="No-Break">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.3.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      impactful field.
     </span>
    </span>
   </p>
   <p>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.4.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     As someone with decades of experience in AI, spanning core research and product development as a technical leader at Microsoft Research and VC-backed AI startups, I’ve been deeply involved in high-impact AI research and the deployment of large-scale AI products that serve millions of users across both consumer and enterprise domains.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.4.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     My involvement in the IEEE in various AI leadership roles has also provided me with a unique perspective on the critical importance of ethical and responsible
    </span>
    <span class="No-Break">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.5.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      AI advancement.
     </span>
    </span>
   </p>
   <p>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.6.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     I first met the authors, Wrick Talukdar and Anjanava Biswas, through our collaborative work on global IEEE AI initiatives.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.6.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     Their extensive expertise, demonstrated through their high-impact technical roles at AWS, work on AI and ML, as well as their scholarly AI research, is very impressive.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.6.3" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     Both Anjanava and Wrick are recognized leaders in Generative AI, bringing world-class expertise, dedication, and deep insights from architecting, developing and deploying cutting-edge AI platforms on a global scale.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.6.4" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     Their rich understanding of the technical complexities and ethical considerations uniquely qualifies them to author this
    </span>
    <span class="No-Break">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.7.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      important book.
     </span>
    </span>
   </p>
   <p>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.8.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     Organized into three parts, the book initially lays a solid theoretical foundation by clearly defining and demystifying Generative AI and the essential characteristics of agentic systems.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.8.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     Readers are guided through core concepts, from Variational Autoencoders and Generative Adversarial Networks to sophisticated agent architectures, enabling both newcomers and seasoned professionals to navigate this complex
    </span>
    <span class="No-Break">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.9.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      landscape confidently.
     </span>
    </span>
   </p>
   <p>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.10.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     In its second part, the book shifts focus to practical techniques necessary for developing intelligent agents capable of self-awareness, adaptability, and collaborative decision-making.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.10.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     The chapters on reflection, introspection, planning, and multi-agent collaboration provide invaluable methodologies and insights, empowering practitioners to design systems that dynamically learn and
    </span>
    <span class="No-Break">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.11.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      continuously improve.
     </span>
    </span>
   </p>
   <p>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.12.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     The final section thoughtfully addresses the broader implications of deploying generative agentic systems in real-world contexts.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.12.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     By emphasizing transparency, explainability, safety, and ethical governance, this book underscores the essential responsibilities associated with advanced AI technologies.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.12.3" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     It provides a critical framework for fostering trust and ensuring these powerful tools align with societal values and
    </span>
    <span class="No-Break">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.13.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      ethical standards.
     </span>
    </span>
   </p>
   <p>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.14.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     More than a technical reference, this book serves as an essential guide for shaping the future of Generative AI and intelligent agents.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.14.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     It invites researchers, industry leaders, and innovators to actively participate in crafting the next chapter of AI, one that responsibly advances technological boundaries while
    </span>
    <span class="No-Break">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.15.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      enriching society.
     </span>
    </span>
   </p>
   <p>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.16.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     I wholeheartedly endorse this timely and insightful work.
    </span>
    <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.16.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
     I encourage you to delve deep into the chapters that follow, embracing your role as an active contributor to the exciting and evolving frontier in
    </span>
    <span class="No-Break">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.17.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      artificial intelligence.
     </span>
    </span>
   </p>
   <p>
    <em class="italic">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.18.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      Matthew
     </span>
    </em>
    <span class="No-Break">
     <em class="italic">
      <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.19.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
       R.
      </span>
      <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.19.2" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
       Scott,
      </span>
     </em>
    </span>
   </p>
   <p>
    <em class="italic">
     <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.20.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      Chief Technology
     </span>
    </em>
    <span class="No-Break">
     <em class="italic">
      <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.21.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
       Officer, Minset.ai
      </span>
     </em>
    </span>
   </p>
   <p>
    <span class="No-Break">
     <em class="italic">
      <span class="koboSpan" id="kobo.22.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
       Spring 2025
      </span>
     </em>
    </span>
   </p>
  </div>
 </body>
</html>
