<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>B19922_05</title>
		<link href="css/style-JRserifv6.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:c8ccfc40-76a9-4a04-b8f6-a8f601fe2ce2" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body id="B19922_05">
		<div id="_idContainer042">
			<h1 class="chapter-number" id="_idParaDest-90"><a id="_idTextAnchor090"/>5</h1>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-91"><a id="_idTextAnchor091"/>Speeding with Accelerators</h1>
			<p>In this chapter, we will examine <strong class="bold">artifacts</strong>, <strong class="bold">pre-built frameworks</strong>, and <strong class="bold">APIs</strong> that are directly available to platform architects and developers from MuleSoft and can be found in Anypoint Exchange. Collectively, these components are referred to as <strong class="bold">accelerators</strong>. These accelerators can expedite the progress of a project or an organization in terms of architecture and development. They also highlight and exhibit numerous standards and best practices, which can be studied academically for instructional purposes. For organizations that are just beginning to address their API landscape, these standards and best practices may be sufficient to enhance or enrich existing (or missing) company standards and <span class="No-Break">best practices.</span></p>
			<p>We will cover the following <span class="No-Break">main topics:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li>Seeing what accelerators MuleSoft has developed and included <span class="No-Break">in Exchange</span></li>
				<li>Understanding how using an accelerator can get your organization up and running faster than by starting <span class="No-Break">with nothing</span></li>
				<li>Learning what building blocks make up <span class="No-Break">these accelerators</span></li>
				<li>Thinking critically about some of the limitations of <span class="No-Break">the accelerators</span></li>
				<li>Briefly reviewing additional acceleration artifacts found in Catalyst’s <span class="No-Break">GitHub repository</span></li>
			</ul>
			<p>An accelerator <a id="_idIndexMarker283"/>is a collection of documentation and technical resources, primarily consisting of API specifications, implementation templates, connectors, and industry-specific accelerators. These API policies expedite the implementation of various use cases that address significant business or industry issues. Accelerators are designed to function like modular construction pieces, allowing clients to modify the endpoints, mappings, and patterns to suit their needs. They represent the best practices that MuleSoft recommends clients follow to accomplish specific use cases. Each use of an accelerator asset saves customers countless hours of discovery, design, development, <span class="No-Break">and testing.</span></p>
			<p>Additionally, custom accelerators and reusable frameworks such as error handling, logging, auditing, custom API rules, and connectors can be created. These are the fundamental components that enable any business to enhance efficiency and expedite the construction of APIs. To use any of the accelerators, you need to log into the Anypoint platform. Anypoint Exchange offers a wide range of pre-built accelerators, including those for the financial services, manufacturing, healthcare, retail, and life sciences sectors. Moreover, there are accelerators available for various systems, such as SAP, OMS, and Data Cloud. To find some of the accelerators offered by MuleSoft, click the following <span class="No-Break">link: </span><a href="https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.examples/mulesoft-accelerators-introduction/"><span class="No-Break">https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.examples/mulesoft-accelerators-introduction/</span></a><span class="No-Break">.</span></p>
			<p>The goal of this chapter is to provide architects with an understanding of how these accelerators can save time across various stages of the API life cycle. You will gain a perspective on how the building blocks in each accelerator can be used and customized, and what different assets, patterns, mappings, and endpoints have been included. Following the previously described use case of our J&amp;J Music Store, you will walk through setting up and customizing parts of the Accelerator <span class="No-Break">for Retail.</span></p>
			<p>In this chapter, we will reference the accelerators found in Anypoint Exchange. The list of these accelerators is described and linked from the following Anypoint Exchange custom <span class="No-Break">asset: </span><a href="https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.examples/mulesoft-accelerators-introduction/minor/1.0/"><span class="No-Break">https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.examples/mulesoft-accelerators-introduction/minor/1.0/</span></a><span class="No-Break">.</span></p>
			<p>The specific Accelerator for Retail and Consumer Goods can be found <span class="No-Break">here: </span><a href="https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.examples/mulesoft-accelerator-for-retail/"><span class="No-Break">https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.examples/mulesoft-accelerator-for-retail/</span></a><span class="No-Break">.</span></p>
			<p>In addition to these sources in Exchange, we will briefly examine some of the assets under MuleSoft Catalyst in GitHub. Currently, this organization’s GitHub account houses 157 repositories, which can be found <span class="No-Break">here: </span><a href="https://github.com/mulesoft-catalyst"><span class="No-Break">https://github.com/mulesoft-catalyst</span></a><span class="No-Break">.</span></p>
			<p>To use and review the examples shown in this chapter, you will need to install either Anypoint Studio or Visual Studio Code with the Anypoint Code Builder <span class="No-Break">Extension Pack.</span></p>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-92"><a id="_idTextAnchor092"/>Unpacking the accelerator building blocks</h1>
			<p>The<a id="_idIndexMarker284"/> accelerators of MuleSoft serve as foundational elements designed to expedite and simplify the various stages of the API life cycle. These accelerators, available through Anypoint Exchange, are curated sets of pre-built APIs, connectors, templates, and best practices. Each accelerator is crafted to address specific industry needs, enabling rapid development, integration, and deployment of <span class="No-Break">API solutions.</span></p>
			<p>In this section, we will examine the core components, or <em class="italic">building blocks</em>, of these accelerators, explaining how they contribute to efficiency and customization. The primary assets include <span class="No-Break">the following:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li><span class="No-Break">Pre-built APIs</span></li>
				<li><span class="No-Break">Connectors</span></li>
				<li><span class="No-Break">Templates</span></li>
				<li><span class="No-Break">Best practices</span></li>
				<li><span class="No-Break">Data mapping</span></li>
				<li><span class="No-Break">Endpoints</span></li>
			</ul>
			<p>Let’s examine each of these assets in more detail, focusing on their descriptions, benefits, and <span class="No-Break">usage examples.</span></p>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-93"><a id="_idTextAnchor093"/>Pre-built APIs</h2>
			<p><strong class="bold">Pre-built APIs</strong> are<a id="_idIndexMarker285"/> fully functional APIs designed <a id="_idIndexMarker286"/>to perform specific tasks relevant to the accelerator’s focus area. These APIs can manage data retrieval, processing, transformation, and integration with <span class="No-Break">various systems.</span></p>
			<h3>Benefits</h3>
			<p>The <a id="_idIndexMarker287"/>benefits of pre-built APIs are <span class="No-Break">as follows:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li><strong class="bold">Time-saving</strong>: This eliminates the need to build APIs <span class="No-Break">from scratch</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Standardization</strong>: This ensures consistent and <span class="No-Break">best-practice implementations</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Scalability</strong>: They <a id="_idIndexMarker288"/>are designed to handle enterprise-level data volumes <span class="No-Break">and transactions</span></li>
			</ul>
			<p><strong class="bold">Usage example</strong>: In<a id="_idIndexMarker289"/> the Accelerator for Retail, a pre-built API may manage product inventory by interfacing with the store’s inventory <span class="No-Break">management system.</span></p>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-94"><a id="_idTextAnchor094"/>Connectors</h2>
			<p><strong class="bold">Connectors</strong> facilitate<a id="_idIndexMarker290"/> seamless communication between MuleSoft applications and external <a id="_idIndexMarker291"/>systems such as databases, SaaS applications, and <span class="No-Break">third-party services.</span></p>
			<h3>Benefits</h3>
			<p>The<a id="_idIndexMarker292"/> benefits of connectors are <span class="No-Break">as follows:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li><strong class="bold">Ease of integration</strong>: This simplifies the process of connecting <span class="No-Break">disparate systems</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Flexibility</strong>: It supports a wide range of protocols and <span class="No-Break">data formats</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Reusability</strong>: Connectors can be used across different projects <span class="No-Break">and applications</span></li>
			</ul>
			<p><strong class="bold">Usage example</strong>: A connector <a id="_idIndexMarker293"/>within the Accelerator for Retail could link the e-commerce platform of the retail music store to its CRM system, enabling synchronized <span class="No-Break">customer data.</span></p>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-95"><a id="_idTextAnchor095"/>Templates</h2>
			<p><strong class="bold">Templates</strong> provide<a id="_idIndexMarker294"/> pre-configured, reusable<a id="_idIndexMarker295"/> integration patterns. They act as blueprints for common integration scenarios, reducing the complexity and time required for setting <span class="No-Break">up integrations.</span></p>
			<h3>Benefits</h3>
			<p>The benefits <a id="_idIndexMarker296"/>of templates are <span class="No-Break">as follows:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li><strong class="bold">Speed</strong>: It accelerates the initial setup <span class="No-Break">of integrations</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Consistency</strong> ensures the uniform implementation of <span class="No-Break">integration patterns</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Customization</strong>: This can be tailored to meet specific <span class="No-Break">business needs</span></li>
			</ul>
			<p><strong class="bold">Usage example</strong>: The <a id="_idIndexMarker297"/>Accelerator for Retail includes a <a id="_idIndexMarker298"/>template for synchronizing customer orders between the online store and the <span class="No-Break">fulfillment system.</span></p>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-96"><a id="_idTextAnchor096"/>Best practices</h2>
			<p>Best practices<a id="_idIndexMarker299"/> are guidelines and recommendations embedded within accelerators. They guide users toward optimal API design, security, <span class="No-Break">and governance.</span></p>
			<h3>Benefits</h3>
			<p>The benefits are <span class="No-Break">as follows:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li><strong class="bold">Quality assurance</strong>: It promotes high standards in API development <span class="No-Break">and management</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Security</strong>: It ensures that APIs are designed with robust <span class="No-Break">security measures</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Efficiency</strong>: This encourages efficient and maintainable <span class="No-Break">code practices</span></li>
			</ul>
			<p><strong class="bold">Usage example</strong>: The Accelerator for Retail may include best practices for handling sensitive customer data, ensuring compliance with data <span class="No-Break">protection regulations.</span></p>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-97"><a id="_idTextAnchor097"/>Data mappings</h2>
			<p><strong class="bold">Data mappings</strong> define<a id="_idIndexMarker300"/> how data should be <a id="_idIndexMarker301"/>transformed and transferred between different systems and formats. They ensure that data flows smoothly and correctly between <span class="No-Break">integrated systems.</span></p>
			<h3>Benefits</h3>
			<p>The <a id="_idIndexMarker302"/>benefits of data mappings are <span class="No-Break">as follows:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li><strong class="bold">Accuracy</strong>: This minimizes errors in data translation <span class="No-Break">and transformation.</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Interoperability</strong>: This ensures that different systems can <span class="No-Break">communicate effectively</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Customization:</strong> It can <a id="_idIndexMarker303"/>be adjusted to accommodate specific <span class="No-Break">data structures</span></li>
			</ul>
			<p><strong class="bold">Usage example</strong>: The <a id="_idIndexMarker304"/>Accelerator for Retail’s data mappings can transform sales data from the e-commerce platform into a format suitable for the <span class="No-Break">accounting system.</span></p>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-98"><a id="_idTextAnchor098"/>Endpoints</h2>
			<p><strong class="bold">Endpoints</strong> are <a id="_idIndexMarker305"/>specific URLs or addresses where<a id="_idIndexMarker306"/> APIs are accessible. They define the entry points for API interactions, specifying how and where APIs can <span class="No-Break">be invoked.</span></p>
			<h3>Benefits</h3>
			<p>The benefits of <a id="_idIndexMarker307"/>endpoints are <span class="No-Break">as follows:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li><strong class="bold">Accessibility</strong>: This provides clear and structured access points for <span class="No-Break">API consumers</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Control</strong>: This allows for fine-grained management of API access <span class="No-Break">and security</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Scalability</strong>: This supports the ability to scale API access <span class="No-Break">as needed</span></li>
			</ul>
			<p><strong class="bold">Usage example</strong>: In the<a id="_idIndexMarker308"/> Accelerator for Retail, an endpoint might be established for the API that handles customer feedback. This would enable easy submission and retrieval <span class="No-Break">of reviews.</span></p>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-99"><a id="_idTextAnchor099"/>Customizing MuleSoft accelerators</h1>
			<p>The <a id="_idIndexMarker309"/>customization of MuleSoft accelerators involves modifying the accelerator’s pre-built APIs, integration templates, and data mappings to better meet your unique business needs. MuleSoft accelerators can be customized in the <span class="No-Break">following ways:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li><strong class="bold">API customization</strong>: MuleSoft creates its APIs with best practices and industry standards in mind. However, every company may have different needs. By modifying the API specifications in the API designer, you can tailor these APIs to meet your <span class="No-Break">specific requirements.</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Data mapping customization</strong>: MuleSoft accelerators offer pre-made data mappings to transform and map data between various systems. However, as each company has a unique data structure, you may need to modify these mappings to meet your <span class="No-Break">specific requirements.</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Customization of integration assets</strong>: The accelerators provide integration templates that can be further customized to meet your unique use case requirements. These templates can be modified to add new steps, remove unnecessary ones, or change the way data is transferred <span class="No-Break">between systems.</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Process flow customization</strong>: Process flows specify the interactions between various systems and processes. You may need to modify these flows to suit <span class="No-Break">your needs.</span></li>
			</ul>
			<p>Keep in mind that, even though customization is effective, it should be done carefully. Ensure that changes are safe, compatible with the rest of the system, and do not inadvertently interfere with other features. If you are unsure, speak with a <span class="No-Break">MuleSoft specialist.</span></p>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-100"><a id="_idTextAnchor100"/>Customizing the Accelerator for Retail – J&amp;J Music Store speeds up</h2>
			<p>To<a id="_idIndexMarker310"/> illustrate how these building blocks<a id="_idIndexMarker311"/> come together, consider the use case of a retail music store implementing the Accelerator for Retail. The store aims to streamline its operations by integrating its e-commerce platform, inventory system, and CRM. J&amp;J is looking to implement a few use cases such as real-time inventory sync, customer profile sync, product sync, and sales order sync. J&amp;J is using Salesforce as a CRM system, SAP as an ERP system, and <a id="_idIndexMarker312"/>another e-commerce platform for B2C and B2B. The Retail Accelerator provided by MuleSoft covers <a id="_idIndexMarker313"/>most of the things that J&amp;J Music is looking <span class="No-Break">to implement.</span></p>
			<p>The following are the steps for using and customizing the Retail Accelerator provided <span class="No-Break">by MuleSoft:</span></p>
			<ol>
				<li><strong class="bold">Setting up</strong>: The store utilizes pre-built APIs to manage product inventory, customer data, and <span class="No-Break">sales transactions.</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Connecting systems</strong>: Using connectors, the store links its e-commerce platform to the inventory and CRM systems, ensuring data flows seamlessly <span class="No-Break">between them.</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Applying templates</strong>: The store utilizes templates to set up data synchronization between its online store and its <span class="No-Break">backend systems.</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Following best practices</strong>: The implementation adheres to the best practices for security and data management, ensuring robust and <span class="No-Break">compliant operations.</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Mapping data</strong>: Data mappings are configured to translate and transfer data accurately between <span class="No-Break">different systems.</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Defining endpoints</strong>: Endpoints are established for APIs, enabling clear and secure access to <span class="No-Break">API functionality.</span></li>
			</ol>
			<p>By leveraging these building blocks, J&amp;J Music Store will not only accelerate its integration process but also ensure a robust, scalable, and efficient system that meets its <span class="No-Break">business needs.</span></p>
			<p>J&amp;J Music decided to build custom frameworks, templates, and connectors to boost overall efficiency and productivity. Why should one build custom frameworks and accelerators? There may be instances where an organization is unable to find the necessary accelerators, connectors, or frameworks in Anypoint Exchange. At the same time, they know that these components will be needed for multiple APIs in the future. This will improve overall reusability across the organization and reduce <span class="No-Break">development efforts.</span></p>
			<p>J&amp;J Music <a id="_idIndexMarker314"/>has built<a id="_idIndexMarker315"/> the following components and published them to Anypoint Exchange, so they can be leveraged by anyone in the organization. The following components have been built by <span class="No-Break">J&amp;J Music:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li><strong class="bold">Error handling framework</strong>: An error handling framework has been built and published to Anypoint Exchange as a Mule plugin. Developers can easily use this framework in their applications by simply adding the Maven dependency in <strong class="source-inline">POM.xml</strong>. This is a common error handling framework specifically for J&amp;J Music and it ensures consistent error handling across <span class="No-Break">the organization.</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Logging framework</strong>: J&amp;J Music decided to use the open-source JSON Logger and published it to Anypoint Exchange. They customized the JSON Logger according to their requirements and added additional functionality. The JSON Logger will ensure that logging across the organization is consistent and in the <span class="No-Break">JSON format.</span></li>
				<li>J&amp;J Music decided to store the application properties in the Azure vault and built an Azure vault properties loader. This loader functions like an out-of-the-box configuration property reader, extracting properties directly from the <span class="No-Break">Azure vault.</span></li>
				<li>J&amp;J Music has also decided to construct templates for APIs and batch applications. These templates will serve as a starting point for developers when they are building <span class="No-Break">the APIs.</span></li>
				<li>API fragments are pieces of API specifications that offer a way to reuse parts or fragments of APIs in specs, thus enabling the creation of APIs more quickly. API fragments and reusable APIs are essential for bridging the IT <span class="No-Break">delivery gap.</span></li>
			</ul>
			<p>With the help of common frameworks and assets, the overall productivity and efficiency of J&amp;J Music <span class="No-Break">is improved.</span></p>
			<p>As we saw in the last section, J&amp;J is using the Accelerator for Retail to expedite development and boost output in general. Let’s now discuss some of the structural elements and benefits that the MuleSoft <span class="No-Break">accelerators offer.</span></p>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-101"><a id="_idTextAnchor101"/>Essential building blocks for MuleSoft accelerators</h1>
			<p>MuleSoft accelerators <a id="_idIndexMarker316"/>provide several building blocks that help to accelerate the process of constructing application networks. Here are a few of the essential building blocks that make up <span class="No-Break">these accelerators:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li><strong class="bold">Pre-built APIs</strong>: These are pre-developed and pre-designed APIs that cover a range of standard business objects and capabilities, including order, provider, patient, and product. These APIs can be quickly and easily imported into any MuleSoft application for<a id="_idIndexMarker317"/> immediate use. They also comply with the <strong class="bold">RESTful API Modeling </strong><span class="No-Break"><strong class="bold">Language</strong></span><span class="No-Break"> (</span><span class="No-Break"><strong class="bold">RAML</strong></span><span class="No-Break">).</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Integration assets</strong>: Integration assets comprise pre-built connectors, templates, and examples that facilitate the quick and easy integration of different systems. They also help in reducing <span class="No-Break">development time.</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">API-led connectivity</strong>: This component allows assets to be easily discovered and reused, which can improve the speed of development and reduce the potential <span class="No-Break">for errors.</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Data mappings</strong>: Predefined data mappings facilitate the conversion of data structures from one format to another, making the exchange of information between systems easier and <span class="No-Break">more seamless.</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Process flows</strong>: These are premade designs that illustrate how various systems and APIs are typically connected to automate <span class="No-Break">business processes.</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Best practices</strong>: To guide users effectively, the accelerators integrate MuleSoft and industry best practices into <span class="No-Break">their components.</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Secure properties</strong>: These properties encrypt and securely store credentials along with other sensitive data. This <a id="_idIndexMarker318"/>enables you to secure APIs <span class="No-Break">and integrations.</span></li>
			</ul>
			<p>When combined, these elements provide a solid foundation for using MuleSoft to initiate integration projects efficiently and quickly. Additionally, these components can be modified to meet the unique needs of the company, enhancing the flexibility and utility of <span class="No-Break">MuleSoft accelerators.</span></p>
			<p>The following are the <a id="_idIndexMarker319"/>benefits provided by the <span class="No-Break">MuleSoft accelerators:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li><strong class="bold">Reducing development time</strong>: Organizations can reduce the time it takes to create integrations from scratch by using pre-built APIs and integration templates. As a result, project timelines are accelerated, enabling quicker implementation and faster time <span class="No-Break">to market.</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Reducing complexity</strong>: MuleSoft accelerators include predefined data mappings that transform and map data between various systems. This simplifies the process of data transformation and contributes to a reduction in errors <span class="No-Break">and inconsistencies.</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Enhanced efficiency</strong>: Companies can use integrations more effectively by saving time on developing new integrations and troubleshooting. This can be achieved by making use of pre-existing templates and <span class="No-Break">data mappings.</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Cost savings</strong>: MuleSoft accelerators can result in medium to long-term cost savings by reducing development time <span class="No-Break">and effort.</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Compliance and best practices</strong>: MuleSoft accelerators have been designed with compliance and best practices in mind, which means they adhere to <span class="No-Break">industry standards.</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Speed up digital transformation</strong>: Accelerators enable businesses to swiftly integrate disparate systems and streamline manual procedures, thereby expediting the digital <span class="No-Break">transformation process.</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Scalability</strong>: MuleSoft accelerators provide enterprises with a scalable integration solution <a id="_idIndexMarker320"/>that adapts to their needs. They allow for easy expansion or modification <span class="No-Break">as required.</span></li>
			</ul>
			<p>While MuleSoft accelerators offer many benefits, it’s crucial for businesses to also consider any potential drawbacks. These may include the need for customization or the resources required to manage and maintain the <span class="No-Break">MuleSoft platform.</span></p>
			<p>The following<a id="_idIndexMarker321"/> are limitations that one may experience while using MuleSoft accelerators, and these entirely depend on the <span class="No-Break">organization’s requirements:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li><strong class="bold">Technical expertise</strong>: Technical expertise is needed to use MuleSoft accelerators. The MuleSoft Anypoint platform may present a steep learning curve for new users. Due to the platform’s extensive integration concept requirements, there could be a barrier to entry and a slower pace <span class="No-Break">of integration.</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Customization</strong>: MuleSoft offers many accelerators and pre-built APIs. However, these may not always cover one’s unique business requirements, leading to the need for customization. This process requires specialized skills and may increase both the project time <span class="No-Break">and cost.</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Learning curve</strong>: Due to the steep learning curve of MuleSoft’s Anypoint platform, fully utilizing a MuleSoft accelerator often requires a solid understanding <span class="No-Break">of it.</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Maintenance</strong>: Accelerators and pre-built templates expedite initial development and deployment, potentially increasing dependence on MuleSoft for future maintenance and updates. This could lead to higher costs <span class="No-Break">over time.</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Scalability issues</strong>: With a MuleSoft accelerator, scaling operations quickly might not be possible. This is dependent on the MuleSoft package to which your company is subscribed, as well as whether your package allows a high volume of API calls. Consequently, it may not be able to accommodate requirements for sudden, <span class="No-Break">rapid growth.</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Cost</strong>: Extra costs may arise from educating employees on how to use the platform, modifying<a id="_idIndexMarker322"/> the pre-built integrations, and keeping the integrations up <span class="No-Break">to date.</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Compatibility issues</strong>: The accelerator is designed to function with a broad spectrum of systems. However, there might be cases where it fails to integrate with newer, sophisticated systems or older, <span class="No-Break">legacy systems.</span></li>
				<li>The <strong class="bold">one-size-fits-all method</strong> of a MuleSoft accelerator offers pre-built data connectors, integration templates, and APIs. However, these may be too general to effectively address specific, specialized, or complicated business needs. Customizing these features to meet requirements can take a considerable amount of time <span class="No-Break">and work.</span></li>
			</ul>
			<p>When determining whether the MuleSoft accelerator is the best investment for their integration needs, organizations must be aware of <span class="No-Break">its limitations.</span></p>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-102"><a id="_idTextAnchor102"/>The MuleSoft Catalyst GitHub repository</h1>
			<p>MuleSoft Catalyst combines<a id="_idIndexMarker323"/> resources, services, and an outcome-driven methodology to optimize return on investment and drive your company’s transformation. It is a collection of resources, best practices, and advice that businesses can utilize to expedite digital transformation. Conversely, GitHub is a popular web-based hosting service for version control, where most open-source projects post their publicly <span class="No-Break">available code.</span></p>
			<p>MuleSoft Catalyst GitHub is MuleSoft’s official GitHub account where the company shares connectors, pre-built APIs, integration templates, and other components that organizations can leverage to expedite development. MuleSoft simplifies the process for developers to find, use, and contribute to their tools by making these resources publicly available on a platform such as GitHub. This results in quicker and more efficient development cycles. It offers a wealth of resources that can be used to rapidly develop applications. The following components are available in the MuleSoft GitHub repository, which organizations can leverage to increase productivity and <span class="No-Break">accelerate development:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li>Pre-built API templates <span class="No-Break">and APIs</span></li>
				<li>Connectors and <span class="No-Break">properties loader</span></li>
				<li><span class="No-Break">Sample applications</span></li>
				<li><span class="No-Break">Dataweave examples</span></li>
				<li>Architectural guides and <span class="No-Break">best practices</span></li>
				<li><span class="No-Break">Implementation guides</span></li>
				<li>Common frameworks such as <span class="No-Break">error plugin</span></li>
				<li><span class="No-Break">API policies</span></li>
				<li><span class="No-Break">RAML fragments</span></li>
			</ul>
			<p>It is important <a id="_idIndexMarker324"/>to understand that access to these resources still necessitates an expert understanding of MuleSoft and its <span class="No-Break">Anypoint platform.</span></p>
			<p>Let’s discuss the useful<a id="_idIndexMarker325"/> components found in the MuleSoft Catalyst’s <span class="No-Break">GitHub repository.</span></p>
			<table class="T---Table _idGenTablePara-1" id="table001-1">
				<colgroup>
					<col/>
					<col/>
					<col/>
					<col/>
				</colgroup>
				<thead>
					<tr class="T---Table">
						<td class="T---Table T---Header">
							<p><span class="No-Break"><strong class="bold">Component Name</strong></span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="T---Table T---Header">
							<p><span class="No-Break"><strong class="bold">Component Type</strong></span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="T---Table T---Header">
							<p><span class="No-Break"><strong class="bold">Description</strong></span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="T---Table T---Header">
							<p><span class="No-Break"><strong class="bold">Link</strong></span></p>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</thead>
				<tbody>
					<tr class="T---Table">
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p><span class="No-Break">Metrics Toolkit</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p><span class="No-Break">MuleSoft Application</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p>The metrics toolkit, formerly known as the metrics accelerator/framework, is a Mule application designed to gather, compile, and load platform metrics into various visual aids. It offers pre-configured visualization options and integrations, such as helpful dashboards <span class="No-Break">and charts.</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p><a href="https://github.com/mulesoft-catalyst/metrics-toolkit"><span class="No-Break">https://github.com/mulesoft-catalyst/metrics-toolkit</span></a></p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="T---Table">
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p>Circuit Breaker Policy – <span class="No-Break">Mule 4</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p><span class="No-Break">API Policy</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p>It is a lightweight API policy to implement the Circuit Breaker pattern in a <span class="No-Break">simpler way.</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p><a href="https://github.com/mulesoft-catalyst/circuit-breaker-policy-mule-4"><span class="No-Break">https://github.com/mulesoft-catalyst/circuit-breaker-policy-mule-4</span></a></p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="T---Table">
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p>Error <span class="No-Break">Handler Plugin</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p><span class="No-Break">MuleSoft Plugin</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p>It is an error handling plugin for implementing the error handling in the <span class="No-Break">MuleSoft applications.</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p><a href="https://github.com/mulesoft-catalyst/error-handler-plugin"><span class="No-Break">https://github.com/mulesoft-catalyst/error-handler-plugin</span></a></p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="T---Table">
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p>Canary Policy – <span class="No-Break">Mule 4</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p><span class="No-Break">API Policy</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p>It is an API policy to implement the canary deployment pattern in a <span class="No-Break">simpler way.</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p><a href="https://github.com/mulesoft-catalyst/canary-policy-mule-4"><span class="No-Break">https://github.com/mulesoft-catalyst/canary-policy-mule-4</span></a></p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="T---Table">
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p>Vault <span class="No-Break">Properties Loader</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p><span class="No-Break">Mule Connector</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p>It is this connector that is used to load the properties from the vault. This can be customized to connect any vault such as HashiCorp, the Azure vault, and the <span class="No-Break">AWS vault.</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p><a href="https://github.com/mulesoft-catalyst/properties-loader-vault-mule4"><span class="No-Break">https://github.com/mulesoft-catalyst/properties-loader-vault-mule4</span></a></p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="T---Table">
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p>Mule <span class="No-Break">Sonarqube Plugin</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p><span class="No-Break">MuleSoft Plugin</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p>With the help of the Mule SonarQube plugin, code inspection, and project metrics collection from Mule projects using SonarQube are <span class="No-Break">made possible.</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p><a href="https://github.com/mulesoft-catalyst/mule-sonarqube-plugin"><span class="No-Break">https://github.com/mulesoft-catalyst/mule-sonarqube-plugin</span></a></p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="T---Table">
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p>RTF CloudHub Cores <span class="No-Break">Calculator API</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p><span class="No-Break">MuleSoft Application</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p>Using <a id="_idIndexMarker326"/>this API, you can determine how many Runtime Fabric cores your organization and business groups are using. This will help you monitor core usage and ensure that you are not exceeding <span class="No-Break">license limits.</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p><a href="https://github.com/mulesoft-catalyst/rtf-cloudhub-cores-calculator-api/"><span class="No-Break">https://github.com/mulesoft-catalyst/rtf-cloudhub-cores-calculator-api/</span></a></p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="T---Table">
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p><span class="No-Break">JSON Logger</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p><span class="No-Break">MuleSoft Connector</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p>The MuleSoft extension JSON Logger is available in this GitHub repository. With the help of the extension’s numerous capabilities, you can maximize the value of every log and improve your <span class="No-Break">logging experience.</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="T---Table T---Body">
							<p><a href="https://github.com/mulesoft-consulting/json-logger"><span class="No-Break">https://github.com/mulesoft-consulting/json-logger</span></a></p>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
			<p class="IMG---Caption" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">Table 5.1- MuleSoft Catalyst GitHub accelerators</p>
			<p>More components are available in the MuleSoft Catalyst’s GitHub repository than those listed in the preceding table. They can be found <span class="No-Break">here: </span><a href="https://github.com/mulesoft-catalyst"><span class="No-Break">https://github.com/mulesoft-catalyst</span></a><span class="No-Break">.</span></p>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-103"><a id="_idTextAnchor103"/>Summary</h1>
			<p>This chapter covered the methods by which organizations can utilize MuleSoft accelerators to enhance productivity and expedite development. It also discussed potential drawbacks associated with the use of these accelerators. Furthermore, we examined the components offered by MuleSoft Catalyst GitHub and the necessary building blocks for creating <span class="No-Break">the accelerators.</span></p>
			<p>In the upcoming chapter, we will discuss aligning functional requirements with desired <span class="No-Break">business outcomes.</span></p>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-104"><a id="_idTextAnchor104"/>Further reading</h1>
			<ul>
				<li><em class="italic">MuleSoft </em><span class="No-Break"><em class="italic">Accelerators</em></span><span class="No-Break">: </span><a href="https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.examples/mulesoft-accelerators-introduction"><span class="No-Break">https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.examples/mulesoft-accelerators-introduction</span></a></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">MuleSoft Catalyst GitHub </strong><span class="No-Break"><strong class="bold">repository</strong></span><span class="No-Break">: </span><a href="https://github.com/mulesoft-catalyst"><span class="No-Break">https://github.com/mulesoft-catalyst</span></a></li>
			</ul>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>