<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>B19922_17</title>
		<link href="css/style-JRserifv6.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:c8ccfc40-76a9-4a04-b8f6-a8f601fe2ce2" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body id="B19922_17">
		<div id="_idContainer235">
			<h1 class="chapter-number" id="_idParaDest-451"><a id="_idTextAnchor466"/>17</h1>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-452"><a id="_idTextAnchor467"/>Prepare for Success</h1>
			<p>In this chapter, we will discuss how to prepare for the <strong class="bold">MuleSoft Certified Platform Architect</strong> (<strong class="bold">MCPA</strong>) – Level 1 examination and the eligibility criteria for it. We will also cover the important topics that you need to know for the exam and recommendations for <span class="No-Break">the exam.</span></p>
			<p>In this chapter, we will cover the <span class="No-Break">following topics:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li>The format and validity <span class="No-Break">of examinations</span></li>
				<li>How to prepare for <span class="No-Break">the exam</span></li>
				<li>Who can take the MCPA – Level <span class="No-Break">1 exam?</span></li>
				<li>Important topics that need to <span class="No-Break">be understood</span></li>
				<li>System requirements for <span class="No-Break">the exam</span></li>
				<li><span class="No-Break">Practice questions</span></li>
			</ul>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-453"><a id="_idTextAnchor468"/>MCPA – Level 1 certification</h1>
			<p>MCPA – Level 1 certification <a id="_idIndexMarker1311"/>validates that the architect has the knowledge and skills to build a robust and secure platform for running the MuleSoft <span class="No-Break">application network.</span></p>
			<p>It also ensures that the architect can do the <span class="No-Break">following activities:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li>Select the right platform for your organization’s requirements and ensure the organization’s compliance, security, <span class="No-Break">and policies</span></li>
				<li>Provide guidance for creating API standards, security best practices, reusable components, templates, <span class="No-Break">and accelerators</span></li>
				<li>Enable a robust platform application monitoring and <span class="No-Break">alert mechanism</span></li>
			</ul>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-454"><a id="_idTextAnchor469"/>Format of the examination</h2>
			<p>The <a id="_idIndexMarker1312"/>examination is in English. It is an online, closed-book exam, meaning that you can’t have any notes or books with you, and it is proctored, which means that special software will monitor your computer screen and your actions while taking <span class="No-Break">the exam.</span></p>
			<p>The duration of the exam is 120 minutes, and there are 60 multiple-choice questions in total. To pass the exam, you need a score of at least 70%, which means that a minimum of 42 questions should be answered correctly. There is no negative marking, meaning you won’t lose marks for <span class="No-Break">incorrect answers.</span></p>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-455"><a id="_idTextAnchor470"/>Validity</h2>
			<p>The <a id="_idIndexMarker1313"/>certification will be valid for two years from the date of passing. You can have five attempts at the exam, with a 24-hour waiting period between each attempt. After five unsuccessful attempts, you need to purchase and register for the <span class="No-Break">certification again.</span></p>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-456"><a id="_idTextAnchor471"/>MCPA – Level 1 Maintenance exam</h2>
			<p>To extend <a id="_idIndexMarker1314"/>the certification’s validity, you can take the MCPA – Level 1 MAINTENANCE exam. The duration of this exam is 45 minutes, with 25 multiple-choice questions in total. You need a score of at least 70% to pass this exam. Again, there is no negative marking. You can have two attempts at this exam, with a 24-hour waiting period between <span class="No-Break">each attempt.</span></p>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-457"><a id="_idTextAnchor472"/>How to prepare for MCPA – Level 1</h2>
			<p>The <a id="_idIndexMarker1315"/>best way to prepare for the examination is to gain some experience in setting up and building the MuleSoft platform. Most of the questions on the exam are scenario-based, so hands-on experience will be critical to help <span class="No-Break">you pass.</span></p>
			<p>Go for instructor-led training such as <em class="italic">Anypoint Platform Architecture: Application Networks</em>, which is officially provided by MuleSoft. This training comes with two free attempts at the MCPA – Level <span class="No-Break">1 exam.</span></p>
			<p>Reading this book will also prepare you for the examination. It explores the architecture and capabilities provided by the Anypoint Platform and covers hosting options supported by MuleSoft, such as CloudHub, CloudHub 2.0, Runtime Fabric Manager, and on-premises <a id="_idIndexMarker1316"/>Mule Runtime. After reading this book, you will have mastered the MuleSoft platform architecture <span class="No-Break">and components.</span></p>
			<p>MuleSoft provides a practice exam that is of a similar format to the real one. The questions are of the same style with a similar difficulty level. You can attempt the practice exam multiple times to gain confidence before the <span class="No-Break">real examination.</span></p>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-458"><a id="_idTextAnchor473"/>Why take the MCPA – Level 1 exam?</h2>
			<p>This <a id="_idIndexMarker1317"/>certification will validate your skills and knowledge of the <span class="No-Break">MuleSoft platform.</span></p>
			<p>Its credentials will set you apart in the marketplace, placing you in a higher position than others, and it is one of the recognized certifications in <span class="No-Break">the industry.</span></p>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-459"><a id="_idTextAnchor474"/>Who should take the MCPA – Level 1 exam?</h2>
			<p>The following <a id="_idIndexMarker1318"/>are the ideal candidates for <span class="No-Break">this exam:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li><strong class="bold">Senior developers</strong>, ideally with MuleSoft Certified Developer – Level 1 certification, who have a strong understanding of MuleSoft and are looking to gain expertise in developing an architecture for an application network by combining integration solutions in an optimized, sustainable, scalable, and <span class="No-Break">reusable way</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Technical architects</strong> who have knowledge of integration and APIs and are looking to understand how to implement these solutions with the MuleSoft <span class="No-Break">Anypoint Platform</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">MuleSoft senior developers</strong> who want to take on MuleSoft platform architect roles and want to understand the platform’s capabilities <span class="No-Break">in depth</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Infrastructure architects</strong> who need to understand and define MuleSoft hosting <a id="_idIndexMarker1319"/>options and who are responsible for their organization’s Anypoint <span class="No-Break">Platform strategy</span></li>
			</ul>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-460"><a id="_idTextAnchor475"/>What topics are covered in the examination?</h2>
			<p>MCPA is <a id="_idIndexMarker1320"/>one of the most reputed exams for architects. It validates the architect’s skill and in-depth knowledge of the MuleSoft platform. The following is a list of topics that are critical and need to be understood for <span class="No-Break">the examination:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li>Architecting and implementing <span class="No-Break">CloudHub 1.0:</span><ul><li>Setting up Anypoint Virtual Private Cloud, the Anypoint dedicated load balancer, and network connectivity options such as Anypoint Virtual Private Network, VPC peering, AWS Direct Connect, and AWS <span class="No-Break">Transit Gateway</span></li><li>Application deployment to CloudHub and choosing the right number of workers and the <span class="No-Break">worker size</span></li><li>Non-functional requirements such as scalability, high availability, and <span class="No-Break">fault tolerance</span></li><li>Concepts of static IP addresses and shared <span class="No-Break">load balancers</span></li></ul></li>
				<li>Architecting and implementing <span class="No-Break">CloudHub 2.0:</span><ul><li>Setting up a private space and network connectivity options such as Anypoint Virtual Private Network and AWS <span class="No-Break">Transit Gateway</span></li><li>Ingress load balancer, private and public endpoints, and inbound and outbound <span class="No-Break">firewall rules</span></li><li>Understanding the <span class="No-Break">shared space</span></li><li>Non-functional requirements such as scalability, high availability, and <span class="No-Break">fault tolerance</span></li><li>Application <span class="No-Break">deployment options</span></li></ul></li>
				<li>Architecting and implementing the customer-hosted <span class="No-Break">Mule Runtime:</span><ul><li>Setting up Mule <span class="No-Break">Runtime on-premises</span></li><li>Anypoint clustering, server group, and HTTP <span class="No-Break">load balancer</span></li><li>Anypoint Platform <strong class="bold">Private Cloud </strong><span class="No-Break"><strong class="bold">Edition</strong></span><span class="No-Break"> (</span><span class="No-Break"><strong class="bold">PCE</strong></span><span class="No-Break">)</span></li><li>Scalability, fault tolerance, disaster recovery, and <span class="No-Break">high availability</span></li><li>Application <span class="No-Break">deployment options</span></li></ul></li>
				<li>Architecting and implementing Runtime <span class="No-Break">Fabric Manager:</span><ul><li>Setting up Runtime Fabric Manager on the self-managed Kubernetes and <span class="No-Break">bare-metal server/VMs</span></li><li>The concept of <span class="No-Break">CPU bursting</span></li><li>Replicas, replica size, and <span class="No-Break">replica clustering</span></li><li>Application <span class="No-Break">deployment options</span></li><li>High availability, fault tolerance, <span class="No-Break">and scalability</span></li></ul></li>
				<li>Enabling<a id="_idIndexMarker1321"/> <span class="No-Break">Anypoint Monitoring:</span><ul><li>Anypoint Monitoring metrics, custom dashboards, reports, and <span class="No-Break">so on</span></li><li>Functional monitoring for private and <span class="No-Break">public endpoints</span></li><li>Anypoint Monitoring <span class="No-Break">logging options</span></li><li>Monitoring on-premises <span class="No-Break">Mule Runtime</span></li><li>Alerts on high CPU and <span class="No-Break">memory usage</span></li></ul></li>
				<li>Governing <span class="No-Break">the APIs:</span><ul><li>Enabling API Manager for applications deployed to Runtime Fabric Manager, CloudHub (1.0 and 2.0), on-premises, and <span class="No-Break">so on</span></li><li>Applying API policies such as rate limiting, spike control, and basic authentication – LDAP, JWT validation, IP allowlist and blocklist, and <span class="No-Break">so on</span></li><li>Enabling API Manager analytics, alerts, custom dashboards, and <span class="No-Break">so on</span></li><li>API auto-discovery and <span class="No-Break">API proxies</span></li><li>Configuring the identity and client providers in the <span class="No-Break">Anypoint Platform</span></li><li>Securing the APIs at the edge via <span class="No-Break">Anypoint Security</span></li></ul></li>
				<li><span class="No-Break">API architecture:</span><ul><li>API-led connectivity and <span class="No-Break">event-driven architecture</span></li><li>Microservices with domain-driven design and <span class="No-Break">bounded context</span></li><li>Circuit <span class="No-Break">breaker pattern</span></li></ul></li>
			</ul>
			<p>A complete<a id="_idIndexMarker1322"/> list of topics that you will need to understand to prepare for the examination can be found on the MuleSoft <span class="No-Break">training site.</span></p>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-461"><a id="_idTextAnchor476"/>Strategies for answering multiple-choice questions</h2>
			<p>Read<a id="_idIndexMarker1323"/> the question completely and carefully and focus on the keywords in the question. After reading the question, try to think what the answer will be without reading <span class="No-Break">the options.</span></p>
			<p>Use the eliminator technique. Eliminate the wrong options that might not be related to the question or might be completely off. In this way, you will reduce the options and you may end up with just one option left at the end, which will be the correct one. But there might be a question where more than one option remains. In this case, read the question again and try to select the right answer from the <span class="No-Break">remaining ones.</span></p>
			<p>Answer all the questions as there is no negative marking. Make sure you don’t waste time on a question for which you don’t know the correct answer; instead, mark it for review so you can revisit that question later. If you have answered a question and you are not 100% sure about the answer you have selected, you can also mark that question to review at <span class="No-Break">the end.</span></p>
			<p>Time is very important and so you need to manage it well during the exam. You will get 120 minutes to answer 60 questions, which gives you 2 minutes for each question. Try to spend 1.5 minutes on each question instead; this will mean it will take 90 minutes to answer all the questions, and the remaining 30 minutes can be used to check or answer the questions that have been marked <span class="No-Break">for review.</span></p>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-462"><a id="_idTextAnchor477"/>System requirements for the examination</h2>
			<p>The <a id="_idIndexMarker1324"/>supported operating systems are Windows and macOS; Linux is not supported. Make sure you have Guardian Browser installed on your computer, as this is the only supported browser. A functioning microphone and high-resolution webcam <span class="No-Break">are needed.</span></p>
			<p>Multiple monitors or screens are not supported during the examination. Make sure you have a strong and stable internet connection on the day of the exam as it is online proctored, and it will require screen sharing and installed proctoring software on <span class="No-Break">your machine.</span></p>
			<p>These are the minimum bandwidth speeds needed for <span class="No-Break">the examination:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li><strong class="bold">Download</strong>: <span class="No-Break">1.5 MBPS</span></li>
				<li><strong class="bold">Upload</strong>: <span class="No-Break">1 MBPS</span></li>
			</ul>
			<p>Test your internet speed using the <span class="No-Break">following links:</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li><a href="https://www.speedcheck.org/"><span class="No-Break">www.speedcheck.org</span></a></li>
				<li><a href="http://fast.com"><span class="No-Break">fast.com</span></a></li>
			</ul>
			<p>Hotspots and tethering are <span class="No-Break">not supported.</span></p>
			<p>Do not allow anyone else to use the internet connection while you are taking the exam as it will increase <span class="No-Break">the bandwidth.</span></p>
			<p>The following are not supported: Google Chromebooks, tablets such as iPads and Nexus, Windows 10 S or Surface RT, and remote desktop software such as TeamViewer and Chrome <span class="No-Break">Remote Desktop.</span></p>
			<p>Make sure no other software is opened on your machine. All other software must be closed before the <span class="No-Break">exam starts.</span></p>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-463"><a id="_idTextAnchor478"/>Exam day</h2>
			<p>Finally, the<a id="_idIndexMarker1325"/> day has arrived and you are going to take the exam. Make sure you are well prepared for the exam and are feeling confident. Make sure that you have taken care of all the system requirements mentioned in the previous section. Keep one or two official proofs of identity near you as these will be checked during the examination to validate <span class="No-Break">your identity.</span></p>
			<p>After<a id="_idIndexMarker1326"/> completing all the prechecks, you can start the examination, and you will get two hours to complete it. Use the strategies for answering multiple-choice questions that we discussed earlier. Once you have completed the exam, you need to submit it. After submitting, you will get your result immediately on the screen with a status of <strong class="bold">Pass</strong> or <strong class="bold">Fail</strong>. It will also show the section-wise percentages you <span class="No-Break">have scored.</span></p>
			<p>If you have passed the examination, you will receive an email confirmation soon after. The certificate can be downloaded from the MuleSoft training website, and it will be auto-generated after receiving the email confirmation. This certificate will be valid for two years from the date of <span class="No-Break">the examination.</span></p>
			<p>If you fail the examination, you can reattempt it 24 or more hours later. Make sure you prepare for the section(s) for which you scored the least <span class="No-Break">before reattempting.</span></p>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-464"><a id="_idTextAnchor479"/>Summary</h1>
			<p>The MCPA – Level 1 exam is highly regarded in the industry and serves as a validation of architects’ abilities to construct secure and resilient MuleSoft platforms. This chapter delves into the essential topics that must be comprehended to prepare for the exam, as well as the system requirements for the day of the test. Additionally, we explored effective and efficient strategies for answering multiple-choice questions and identified the ideal candidates for this examination. Finally, we concluded with a set of practice questions designed to familiarize you with the exam’s format and level <span class="No-Break">of complexity.</span></p>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-465"><a id="_idTextAnchor480"/>Questions</h1>
			<p>Have a go at answering the <span class="No-Break">following questions:</span></p>
			<ol>
				<li>An organization is looking to set up MuleSoft for deploying APIs. They have a requirement that data and metadata should not leave the corporate datacenter. What is one of the best options that is suitable for hosting the runtime and <span class="No-Break">control plane?</span><ol><li class="Alphabets">Customer-hosted Mule runtime plane and customer-hosted Anypoint Platform PCE <span class="No-Break">control plane</span></li><li class="Alphabets">MuleSoft-hosted runtime plane and customer-hosted Anypoint Platform PCE <span class="No-Break">control plane</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Customer-hosted Mule runtime plane and MuleSoft-hosted Anypoint Platform <span class="No-Break">control plane</span></li><li class="Alphabets">MuleSoft-hosted runtime plane and MuleSoft-hosted Anypoint Platform <span class="No-Break">control plane</span></li></ol></li>
				<li>An organization is using CloudHub 1.0 to run MuleSoft APIs. MuleSoft APIs deployed to CloudHub 1.0 require access to the services or databases that are located behind the corporate firewalls. What is one of the options that can be leveraged to connect the corporate data center securely <span class="No-Break">from CloudHub?</span><ol><li class="Alphabets">Services and databases located behind the corporate firewall are accessible with the default CloudHub 1.0 setup. No customization to the platform <span class="No-Break">is required.</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Set up Anypoint Virtual Private Cloud in CloudHub 1.0 and create a VPN IPSec tunnel between Anypoint Virtual Private Cloud and the corporate <span class="No-Break">data center.</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Use a static IP address on the application that needs to connect to services located behind the corporate firewall and whitelist the static IP address in the corporate data <span class="No-Break">center firewall.</span></li><li class="Alphabets">It is not possible to connect the service located behind the corporate firewall from CloudHub 1.0. You need to set up Mule Runtime on-premises to connect resources behind the <span class="No-Break">corporate firewall.</span></li></ol></li>
				<li>An organization has deployed an API that is using Object Store v2 on CloudHub. There is another API deployed on the on-premises Mule Runtime that wants to access the data from Object Store v2. What is the best way to access Object Store v2 on CloudHub from the application running on the on-premises <span class="No-Break">Mule Runtime?</span><ol><li class="Alphabets">Using the <span class="No-Break">Anypoint CLI</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Using Object <span class="No-Break">Store Connector</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Using the Object Store v2 <span class="No-Break">REST API</span></li><li class="Alphabets">It is not possible to access Object Store v2 from on-premises <span class="No-Break">Mule Runtime</span></li></ol></li>
				<li>Which API policy will be least applied at the <span class="No-Break">Experience API?</span><ol><li class="Alphabets"><span class="No-Break">IP Blocklist</span></li><li class="Alphabets"><span class="No-Break">IP Allowlist</span></li><li class="Alphabets">JSON Threat <span class="No-Break">Protection policy</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Client ID <span class="No-Break">Enforcement policy</span></li></ol></li>
				<li>An organization has Kubernetes running on the AWS cloud as a managed service by AWS. They are looking to set up Runtime Fabric Manager to deploy MuleSoft APIs. What is the best option <span class="No-Break">to choose?</span><ul><li>Runtime Fabric Manager on Elastic <span class="No-Break">Kubernetes Service</span></li><li>Runtime Fabric Manager on <span class="No-Break">bare-metal server/VMs</span></li><li>Runtime Fabric Manager <span class="No-Break">on OpenShift</span></li><li>You cannot use your own Kubernetes running on AWS to run Runtime <span class="No-Break">Fabric Manager</span></li></ul></li>
				<li>In which situation would you require a dedicated load balancer on the <span class="No-Break">Anypoint Platform?</span><ol><li class="Alphabets">To route traffic to the application running in Anypoint Virtual Private Cloud on the <span class="No-Break">private port</span></li><li class="Alphabets">To load balance the traffic between applications running in multiple regions <span class="No-Break">of CloudHub</span></li><li class="Alphabets">To route traffic to the application running on the on-premises <span class="No-Break">Mule Runtime</span></li><li class="Alphabets">To route traffic to the application running in Anypoint Virtual Private Cloud on the <span class="No-Break">public port</span></li></ol></li>
				<li>An organization is running MuleSoft APIs on the on-premises-hosted runtime plane with multiple nodes. APIs deployed to the runtime plane are facing concurrency issues due to using file connectors, topics, and so on. How can you resolve the concurrency issue for the application running on the <span class="No-Break">runtime plane?</span><ol><li class="Alphabets">Add all the nodes into the server group to resolve the <span class="No-Break">concurrency issues</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Add all the nodes into the cluster to resolve the <span class="No-Break">concurrency issues</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Add an HTTP load balancer in front of all the nodes to resolve the <span class="No-Break">concurrency issues</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Do not use the connectors that cause <span class="No-Break">concurrency issues</span></li></ol></li>
				<li>An organization has non-MuleSoft APIs, and they are looking to manage them using Anypoint Platform API Manager. What is the most cost-effective and highly performant solution for managing the <span class="No-Break">non-MuleSoft APIs?</span><ol><li class="Alphabets">Create API proxies for all the non-MuleSoft APIs to manage them using <span class="No-Break">API Manager</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Set up Flex Gateway to manage the non-MuleSoft APIs using <span class="No-Break">API Manager</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Create MuleSoft APIs in front of each non-MuleSoft API, peer MuleSoft APIs with API Manager using API auto-discovery, and manage the non-MuleSoft APIs using <span class="No-Break">API Manager</span></li><li class="Alphabets">There is no way to manage non-MuleSoft APIs from Anypoint Platform <span class="No-Break">API Manager</span></li></ol></li>
				<li>An organization has a backend system that can handle a certain number of requests within a certain time frame. If more requests arrive than the backend system cannot handle, those requests need to be queued and retried, but they should not be rejected until the time limit or retry limit is exceeded. Which API policy can handle this scenario to protect the API and <span class="No-Break">backend system?</span><ol><li class="Alphabets">Spike <span class="No-Break">control policy</span></li><li class="Alphabets"><span class="No-Break">Rate limiting</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Rate limiting with <span class="No-Break">SLA tiers</span></li><li class="Alphabets"><span class="No-Break">IP allowlist</span></li></ol></li>
				<li>An organization is using Runtime Fabric Manager on Elastic Kubernetes Service. They have a few APIs deployed with multiple replicas sharing the object store, and replicas are clustered. They are facing challenges with data in the object store being lost during application redeployment or restart. As a platform architect, how will you fulfill <span class="No-Break">this requirement?</span><ol><li class="Alphabets">Enable the tokenization service and use the persistent object store in the <span class="No-Break">MuleSoft application</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Enable Persistence Gateway and use the transient object store in the <span class="No-Break">MuleSoft application</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Enable the tokenization service and use the transient object store in the <span class="No-Break">MuleSoft application</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Enable Persistence Gateway and use the persistent object store in the <span class="No-Break">MuleSoft application</span></li></ol></li>
				<li>What are the different metrics that can be configured while creating a custom dashboard in Anypoint <span class="No-Break">API Manager?</span><ol><li class="Alphabets">Request size, CPU usage, response size, <span class="No-Break">memory usage</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Request size, CPU usage, response size, HTTP <span class="No-Break">status code</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Request size, requests, response <span class="No-Break">size, responses</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Request size, requests, response size, <span class="No-Break">response time</span></li></ol></li>
				<li>An organization has private endpoints and they are looking to test and monitor the private endpoints without consuming extra vCores to create private locations. Is it possible, and if so, how can it <span class="No-Break">be achieved?</span><ol><li class="Alphabets">Yes, it is possible. Create a public location for monitoring private endpoints. You need to allow IP addresses in the Anypoint Virtual Private Cloud firewall rules for <span class="No-Break">public locations.</span></li><li class="Alphabets">No, it is not possible. You will always need a private location for monitoring <span class="No-Break">private endpoints.</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Yes, it is possible. Create a public location for monitoring private endpoints. There is no other <span class="No-Break">configuration required.</span></li><li class="Alphabets">No, it is not possible to monitor the private endpoints from <span class="No-Break">functional monitoring.</span></li></ol></li>
				<li>An organization has deployed the MuleSoft API on CloudHub. This API started facing the performance issue that it is not able to process more requests at a time and there has been latency added to the response time. As an architect, what solution would you suggest to resolve the <span class="No-Break">performance issue?</span><ol><li class="Alphabets">Implement vertical scaling by increasing the worker size or enable an autoscaling policy for <span class="No-Break">memory usage</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Implement horizontal scaling by increasing the number of workers for the application or enable an autoscaling policy for <span class="No-Break">memory usage</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Implement horizontal scaling by increasing the number of workers for the application or enable an autoscaling policy for <span class="No-Break">CPU usage</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Implement vertical scaling by increasing the worker size or enable an autoscaling policy for <span class="No-Break">CPU usage</span></li></ol></li>
			</ol>
			<p class="callout-heading">Note</p>
			<p class="callout">The autoscaling feature is not enabled on CloudHub by default. Contact your MuleSoft <span class="No-Break">account representative.</span></p>
			<ol>
				<li value="14">What cannot be enforced using the API policy for applications deployed <span class="No-Break">to CloudHub?</span><ol><li class="Alphabets">Logging the HTTP requests <span class="No-Break">and responses</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Allowing and blocking requests from certain IP addresses or IP <span class="No-Break">address ranges</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Tokenizing and detokenizing the data in the request and <span class="No-Break">response payload</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Controlling the number of requests to avoid overloading the <span class="No-Break">backend systems</span></li></ol></li>
				<li>An organization is looking to deploy an application on Runtime Fabric Manager with zero downtime. Which is the best solution to use for <span class="No-Break">zero-downtime deployments?</span><ol><li class="Alphabets">Use the Recreate deployment model with more than <span class="No-Break">one replica</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Use the Rolling Update deployment model with more than <span class="No-Break">one replica</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Use the Recreate deployment model with a minimum of <span class="No-Break">one replica</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Use the Rolling Update deployment model with a minimum of <span class="No-Break">one replica</span></li></ol></li>
				<li>An organization is using CloudHub 2.0, and they have APIs deployed using the API-led connectivity architecture. They don’t want System and Process APIs to be publicly accessible. Only Experience APIs can be publicly accessible. What is the best solution to implement this in <span class="No-Break">CloudHub 2.0?</span><ol><li class="Alphabets">Use shared space in CloudHub 2.0 and remove public endpoints from the System and <span class="No-Break">Process APIs</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Use shared space in CloudHub 2.0 and define firewall rules for not allowing traffic from external services for System and <span class="No-Break">Process APIs</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Use private space and remove public endpoints from the System and <span class="No-Break">Process APIs</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Use private space and define firewall rules for not allowing traffic from external services for System and <span class="No-Break">Process APIs</span></li></ol></li>
				<li>What are the different alerts that can be configured from Anypoint API Manager for the <span class="No-Break">API instance?</span><ol><li class="Alphabets">Request count, Response code, policy violation, <span class="No-Break">response time</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Request count, CPU usage, policy violation, <span class="No-Break">response time</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Request count, CPU usage, policy violation, <span class="No-Break">memory usage</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Request count, CPU usage, HTTP status code, <span class="No-Break">memory usage</span></li></ol></li>
				<li>An organization has assets in Anypoint Exchange. Some of the versions of those assets are of no use as new versions have been published in Anypoint Exchange. What should happen to the old asset versions so that users are aware that they are not <span class="No-Break">in use?</span><ol><li class="Alphabets">Decommission the <span class="No-Break">asset version</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Retire the <span class="No-Break">asset version</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Deprecate the <span class="No-Break">asset version</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Remove the <span class="No-Break">asset version</span></li></ol></li>
				<li>How does a fine-grained microservices architecture benefit the <span class="No-Break">application network?</span><ol><li class="Alphabets">The number of discoverable and reusable assets will increase in the <span class="No-Break">application networks</span></li><li class="Alphabets">The number of API connections will decrease in the <span class="No-Break">application networks</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Resource usage will decrease as fine-grained microservices require <span class="No-Break">fewer resources</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Response time will improve for end consumers as microservices <span class="No-Break">are smaller</span></li></ol></li>
				<li>An organization is looking to set up Anypoint Virtual Private Cloud. To do that, they need to decide on the CIDR mask. They have the <span class="No-Break">following requirements:</span><ul><li>100 applications are to be deployed on <span class="No-Break">the production</span></li><li>Each application will be deployed to two workers for <span class="No-Break">high availability</span><p class="list-inset">What will be a suitable CIDR mask for <span class="No-Break">these requirements?</span></p><ol><li class="Alphabets"><span class="No-Break">0/24</span></li><li class="Alphabets"><span class="No-Break">0/23</span></li><li class="Alphabets"><span class="No-Break">0/22</span></li><li class="Alphabets"><span class="No-Break">0/21</span></li></ol></li></ul></li>
			</ol>
			<ol>
				<li value="21">What cannot be effectively enforced with <span class="No-Break">Anypoint Security?</span><ol><li class="Alphabets">Guarding the API against <span class="No-Break">denial-of-service attacks</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Limiting the size of <span class="No-Break">the payload</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Validating the <span class="No-Break">OAuth token</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Allowing a request from certain IP addresses or <span class="No-Break">IP ranges</span></li></ol></li>
				<li> An organization has implemented a dedicated load balancer and they want to allow public traffic from certain IP addresses and need to restrict all other traffic on the dedicated load balancer. What is the best solution to implement <span class="No-Break">this requirement?</span><ol><li class="Alphabets">Apply the IP blocklist policy on the <span class="No-Break">API instance</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Remove 0.0.0.0/0 from allowed CIDRs and add the required IP addresses or IP ranges to the allowlist CIDRs on the dedicated load balancer to allow traffic from those IP addresses and restrict all <span class="No-Break">other traffic</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Apply the IP allowlist policy on the <span class="No-Break">API instance</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Apply the IP allowlist policy on the API security to allow traffic from certain IP addresses or <span class="No-Break">IP ranges</span></li></ol></li>
				<li>An organization hosts APIs on the customer-hosted Mule Runtime, and they have configured Active Directory as an identity provider in the Anypoint Platform. They don’t have the budget to go for any other external identity provider. Which API policy can be used to authenticate users within the organization when accessing <span class="No-Break">the APIs?</span><ol><li class="Alphabets">Basic authentication – <span class="No-Break">LDAP</span></li><li class="Alphabets"><span class="No-Break">Basic authentication</span></li><li class="Alphabets"><span class="No-Break">JWT validation</span></li><li class="Alphabets"><span class="No-Break">IP allowlist</span></li></ol></li>
				<li>An organization has permanently moved API implementation to a new location. What is the best approach to tell the client that the requested resources have been permanently moved to a <span class="No-Break">new location?</span><ol><li class="Alphabets">Respond with status code 500 and the message “Error while <span class="No-Break">processing request”</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Respond with status code 404 and the message “Requested resource <span class="No-Break">not found”</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Respond with status code 301 and the message “Requested resource has been moved permanently to a <span class="No-Break">new location”</span></li><li class="Alphabets">Respond with status code 302 and the message “Requested resource has been moved permanently to a <span class="No-Break">new location”</span></li></ol></li>
				<li>An organization has an API that connects to the backend system, which intermittently goes down or is under maintenance two to three times a week. The client is looking to avoid overloading the backend system during maintenance, which is likely to fail all the requests. Which API policy can be used to implement <span class="No-Break">this situation?</span><ol><li class="Alphabets"><span class="No-Break">Canary deployment</span></li><li class="Alphabets"><span class="No-Break">Spike control</span></li><li class="Alphabets"><span class="No-Break">Rate limiting</span></li><li class="Alphabets"><span class="No-Break">Circuit breaker</span></li></ol></li>
			</ol>
			<p class="callout-heading">Note</p>
			<p class="callout">The canary deployment and circuit breaker policies are available in the MuleSoft <span class="No-Break">Catalyst GitHub.</span></p>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-466"><a id="_idTextAnchor481"/>Further reading</h1>
			<ul>
				<li><a href="https://training.mulesoft.com/certification/architect-platform-level1"><span class="No-Break">https://training.mulesoft.com/certification/architect-platform-level1</span></a></li>
				<li><a href="https://training.mulesoft.com/course/architecture-application-networks"><span class="No-Break">https://training.mulesoft.com/course/architecture-application-networks</span></a></li>
			</ul>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-467"><a id="_idTextAnchor482"/>Answers</h1>
			<table class="No-Table-Style" id="table001-10">
				<colgroup>
					<col/>
					<col/>
				</colgroup>
				<tbody>
					<tr class="No-Table-Style">
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p><span class="No-Break">Question</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p><span class="No-Break">Answer</span></p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="No-Table-Style">
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>1</p>
						</td>
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>A</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="No-Table-Style">
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>2</p>
						</td>
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>B</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="No-Table-Style">
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>3</p>
						</td>
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>C</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="No-Table-Style">
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>4</p>
						</td>
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>B</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="No-Table-Style">
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>5</p>
						</td>
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>A</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="No-Table-Style">
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>6</p>
						</td>
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>A</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="No-Table-Style">
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>7</p>
						</td>
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>B</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="No-Table-Style">
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>8</p>
						</td>
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>B</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="No-Table-Style">
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>9</p>
						</td>
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>A</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="No-Table-Style">
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p><span class="No-Break">10</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>D</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="No-Table-Style">
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p><span class="No-Break">11</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>D</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="No-Table-Style">
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p><span class="No-Break">12</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>A</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="No-Table-Style">
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p><span class="No-Break">13</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>C</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="No-Table-Style">
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p><span class="No-Break">14</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>C</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="No-Table-Style">
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p><span class="No-Break">15</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>D</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="No-Table-Style">
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p><span class="No-Break">16</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>C</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="No-Table-Style">
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p><span class="No-Break">17</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>A</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="No-Table-Style">
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p><span class="No-Break">18</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>C</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="No-Table-Style">
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p><span class="No-Break">19</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>A</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="No-Table-Style">
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p><span class="No-Break">20</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>B</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="No-Table-Style">
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p><span class="No-Break">21</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>C</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="No-Table-Style">
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p><span class="No-Break">22</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>B</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="No-Table-Style">
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p><span class="No-Break">23</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>A</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="No-Table-Style">
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p><span class="No-Break">24</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>C</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="No-Table-Style">
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p><span class="No-Break">25</span></p>
						</td>
						<td class="No-Table-Style">
							<p>D</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>