<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Executive Presence 2.0</title>
<link href="../styles/9780063270565_template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:9673925c-8907-4289-b2ab-15cb30d78281" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section>
<h2 class="fmh" id="con"><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_255" title="255"/><a href="9780063270565_Contents.xhtml#rcon">Conclusion</a></h2>
<p class="noindent"><b>Ordinary mortals can crack the EP code.</b> These skills are eminently learnable. You don’t have to be a born actor or be endowed with a James Earl Jones voice. I find it painful to remember how bad I was when I started doing public lectures. I used to stand behind large podiums reading from copious notes, determined that my audience hear every last piece of the evidence I had assembled to prove my point. I wince at the thought of how boring I must have been. Oftentimes I was also invisible. At five feet four (with heels) I could barely peer over the podium in many venues.</p>
<p class="indent">But I confronted my shortcomings and, by dint of hard work and with help from various coaches, lifted my game. Today I can command most spaces and stages. I have my own checklist: I prepare so thoroughly that the arc of my speech (vivid stories as well as pithy facts) gets beaten into my brain and I’m able to ditch my notes; I call ahead and ask that the podium be moved out of the way; and I use a lavaliere microphone so that I can roam free, making eye contact with as many people in the audience as possible. Over the years I’ve transformed my ability to engage and inspire an audience.</p>
<p class="indent">If EP is learnable, it’s also doable. <b>You don’t have to be some kind of genius</b> and ace all top picks across the three categories of gravitas, communication, and appearance. No need for straight A’s. Not even Barack Obama is that good—and neither is his spectacular wife, Michelle Obama. My advice here is to work with your strengths and try to nail three picks in each category. Take <span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_256" title="256"/>my approach to gravitas. My personality and skill sets position me well for number 1 (confidence), number 4 (emotional intelligence), and number 6 (vision). I have therefore sought to develop these natural strengths while making sure I don’t totally mess up the other three picks. I also seek to avoid serious blunders.</p>
<p class="indent"><b>Figure out what is negotiable—and what is not.</b> In your drive to crack the EP code, don’t compromise your authenticity to such an extent that it puts your soul in play. It will make you miserable and will also backfire, because in the end gravitas rests squarely on your true identity.</p>
<p class="indent">If you’re a woman (or a gay person) working in a testosterone-laced organizational culture, don’t put up with off-color or homophobic jokes. Make clear what your values are. If this means you’re cut loose and encouraged to find employment elsewhere, so be it. Eventually your integrity and authenticity will win out.</p>
<p class="indent">Or if you’re passionate about your field and enjoy inspiring others, yet work in an organization where coolness and restraint are admired behaviors, you may need to quit and find a work culture that values your enthusiasm and commitment. It’s distressing to be constantly dialing back; it also eats into how much you can contribute to any venture.</p>
<p class="indent">A final word: <b>Commit to the work involved and embrace your EP journey.</b> It will be enormously empowering. Of course it will require a ton of effort and energy. Learning how to command a room, figuring out how to use silence to punctuate a speech, becoming an adept and agile player on social media to project a distinctive brand, finding the perfect skirt or suit to complement your body type—none of this is easy and it will require hours of painstaking effort. But you can count on the results being transformative. Cracking the EP code will close the gap between merit and success, between where you are right now, and where you could be if you unleashed your full potential and allowed it to fly and soar. And it will make you feel quite wonderful.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>