<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Executive Presence 2.0</title>
<link href="../styles/9780063270565_template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:9673925c-8907-4289-b2ab-15cb30d78281" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section>
<h2 class="fmh" id="ack"><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_ix" title="ix"/><a href="9780063270565_Contents.xhtml#rack">Acknowledgments</a></h2>
<p class="noindent">This book and these themes have been close to my heart for more than ten years, and it gives me great pleasure to acknowledge the extensive help I’ve received from scholars and corporate executives but also leaders in the world of culture and the arts. Many of these remarkable individuals plunged in not once (in 2012) but twice (in 2022), with precious insights and vivid stories that allowed me to attach voices to my new data and crack the EP code in a post-pandemic world that is still wrestling with #MeToo and Black Lives Matter.</p>
<p class="indent">The scholars I have talked to and leaned on for wisdom include: Victoria Bateman (Cambridge), Peter Cappelli (Wharton), John Eatwell (Cambridge), Amy Edmondson (Harvard), Eddie Glaude (Princeton), Allan Krueger (Princeton), Katherine Phillips (Columbia), Debora Spar (Harvard), and Kenji Yoshino (NYU Law School).</p>
<p class="indent">The corporate and nonprofit leaders I had the privilege of talking with and learning from include: Mercedes Abramo (Cartier), DeAnne Aguirre (Hercules Capital), Jameel Anz (Arab Bank), Tanya Bannister (CAG), Lydia Bottegoni (Blizzard Entertainment), Erika Irish Brown (Citi), Jyloti Chopra (MGM Resorts), Suzi Digby (ORA), Bob Dudley (Axio Global), Marisa Ferrara (Google), Cassandra Frangos (Spencer Stuart), Trevor Gandy (Merkel), Rosa Gudmundsdottir <span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_x" title="x"/>(Reginn HF), Lorraine Hariton (Catalyst), Roz Hudnell (Intel), Kennedy Ihezie (AIG), Sylvia James (Winston &amp; Strawn), Barbara Jones (Bracewell LLP), Andrés Jónsson (Gód Samskipti), Megan Knight (Google), Logan Kruger (Limon Dance Company), Darin Latimore (Yale School of Medicine), David Miliband (IRC), Andrea Turner Moffitt (Plum Alley Investments), Annmarie Neal (Hellman &amp; Friedman), Elizabeth Nieto (Spotify), Emma Petersson (Ogilvy), Marylin Prince (Prince Houston Group), Scott Rothkopf (Whitney Museum of American Art), Ivan Sacks (Withersworldwide), Todd Sears (Out Leadership), Deborah Rosado Shaw (PepsiCo), Shari Slate (Cisco), Virgil L. Smith (Smith Edwards Group LLC), Keisha Smith-Jeremie (Tory Burch), Vanessa Spatafora (DraftKings), Brande Stellings (Vestry Laight), Tiger Tyagarajan (Genpact), Cornel West (Union Theological Seminary), Anré Williams (American Express), Tai Green Wingfield (Unity), and Kevin Witcher (SWBC).</p>
<p class="indent">I owe particular gratitude to the leaders who participated in the survey research and sat down for extended conversations. This was a big ask in 2022 as many organizations were stretched thin dealing with disruptions wrought by Covid and a European war.</p>
<p class="indent">I am enormously grateful to Jonathan Burnham and Hollis Heimbouch at HarperCollins. This is the fourth book we have done together, and I’m both in awe of their commitment to my work and their willingness to dig deep into my manuscripts and provide unvarnished feedback. My drafts are always more elegant and spare after Hollis’s close attention. I’m also greatly indebted to my literary agent, Molly Friedrich, who has always encouraged me to intermingle data and analysis with storytelling. I think I’ve finally nailed it.</p>
<p class="indent">When it comes to my own “team,” I’m immensely appreciative <span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xi" title="xi"/>of the skill sets, empathy, and 360-degree support provided by Melissa Milsten (my project manager), Lance Chantiles-Wertz (my “tech star”), and the staff at Knowledge Networks and NORC, who were invaluable in the data-gathering phases of the research.</p>
<p class="indent">A final word on Richard Weinert, my husband of forty-six years. He has become my superpower. The pandemic hit everyone hard, and in my case, social and professional isolation was compounded by major spinal surgery that kept me immobilized for several months. Richard’s tender, loving care and buoyant can-do attitude gave me the courage and discipline to finish this important book. These days I call him my “trophy husband.”<span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_xii" title="xii"/></p>
</section>
</body>
</html>