<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Executive Presence 2.0</title>
<link href="../styles/9780063270565_template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:9673925c-8907-4289-b2ab-15cb30d78281" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section>
<h2 class="cn" id="ch7"><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_157" title="157"/><a href="9780063270565_Contents.xhtml#rch7">7</a></h2>
<h2 class="ct"><a href="9780063270565_Contents.xhtml#rch7">Authenticity vs. Conformity</a></h2>
<p class="noindent">A few years ago, I had a conversation over breakfast with Trevor Phillips, the former chair of the Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC), at the Covent Garden Hotel, London.</p>
<p class="indent">“The most extraordinary thing just happened,” he said, sinking into the purple upholstery across from me. He then proceeded to tell me how, a block from the hotel, he’d been approached on the street by a total stranger, a man who’d recognized him as the former host of <i>The London Programme</i> but also as the producer of <i>Windrush</i>, the 1998 BBC television series documenting the rise of multiracial Britain.</p>
<p class="indent">“He wanted me to know that, as a young Black Brit, <i>Windrush</i> had changed his life,” Phillips continued. “He’d gotten the DVDs and shared them with his children, because he knew they’d come away just as inspired.” Phillips shook his head, marveling at the encounter. “Making that series was probably the riskiest move I ever made, but also the most important and the one for which I’ll be ever grateful. It returned me to myself.”</p>
<p class="indent">Outspoken about LGBT rights, a vehement defender of free speech, yet vocal in his opposition to multiculturalism, Phillips had just stepped down from the top slot at the EHRC, which he’d formed in 2006 from the ashes of the Commission for Racial Equality, which he had also chaired. I remember being wowed by his sheer presence. A tall, impeccably dressed, extremely well-<span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_158" title="158"/>spoken Afro-Caribbean man blessed with both an Imperial College British accent and a broadcaster’s deep voice, Phillips emanates authority and credibility, and talks eloquently and easily about the complexity of multiracial Britain. Knowing something of his political career—he’d been friends with Tony Blair, a London mayoral candidate in 1999, and chair of the London Assembly until 2003—I assumed that he’d constructed his brand around his heritage and identity.</p>
<p class="indent">But in fact, not until he was thirty-eight years old did Phillips come to embrace, as he puts it, his “first language.” Born in London to parents who’d emigrated from Guyana, Phillips readily adapted to British ways of speaking, dressing, and socializing, becoming so fluent in this “second language” that, after graduating with a chemistry degree from Imperial College London, he had few qualms about forsaking his origins. Embarking on a career in television, he quickly rose in the ranks, becoming head of current affairs for London Weekend Television (LWT) in 1994. To have gotten so far by his late thirties was an extraordinary achievement. He seemed poised for a top leadership role. Instead, he turned away.</p>
<p class="indent">“As you climb the ladder as a Black professional, you get to a place where you’re confronted with a choice,” he explained to me. “You can either resurrect that first language, give it weight and heft in your new high-profile life—a risky business—or you can play it safe, and continue to speak your second language so that you can survive and thrive in a white world.</p>
<p class="indent">“I’d reached that fork in the road,” he continued. “At that point in time, I was burning to make this documentary on <i>Windrush</i>, the troops ship that brought the first West Indian immigrants to Britain in 1948, but I knew ITV [then LWT] wasn’t about to sign on. They didn’t see it as an important project. I’d have to leave to produce it, and I knew once I stepped off track there was no coming back.”</p>
<p class="indent"><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_159" title="159"/>But step off he did, forming his own production company. He then went on to create a partnership with the BBC, producing his documentary as a four-part television series. When it garnered rave reviews, he teamed up with his brother Michael, a novelist born in Guyana, to write the underlying story, which HarperCollins published to great critical acclaim.</p>
<p class="indent">“<i>Windrush</i> was a huge success,” he reflected. “And transformative for me. Firstly, its impact gave me enormous satisfaction. But it also made me into a public figure and put me on the map in ways I couldn’t possibly have anticipated. It was a turning point, no question about it. Because by embracing what was most meaningful to me,” Phillips added, “I forged a career path where my suppressed identity could flourish.”</p>
<p class="ahead">BLEACHED-OUT PROFESSIONALS</p>
<p class="noindent">In late 2011 and early 2012, when CTI first probed the topic of executive presence with focus groups at Moody’s, the Gap, EY, and Freddie Mac, we uncovered a potent source of anguish for up-and-coming professionals of color. While EP for some was a set of unwritten rules that no one had bothered to share with them, for others it was a terrain they felt they couldn’t navigate without sacrificing core aspects of their identity. To use the metaphor that Trevor Phillips shared with me, they were all “bilingual,” high-performing managers who grew up with a distinct heritage and a “first language” but learned to survive and thrive in a white world by adopting the conventions of that world—in effect a second language. Indeed, they had the track record, credentials, and experience to get to the next level, and understood they were being scrutinized for their EP. But they also feared becoming “bleached-out professionals,” to invoke an older metaphor: individuals who in <span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_160" title="160"/>order to be perceived as up-and-comers in their work environments had effectively scrubbed themselves of all ethnic, religious, racial, socioeconomic, and educational identifiers.<sup><a href="9780063270565_Notes.xhtml#renote106" id="enote106">106</a></sup> And they weren’t happy about it. Like Phillips, they had reached that place on the ladder where looking and acting like a leader at work suddenly didn’t seem to be worth the sacrifice of that “other” identity, of their first language. They resented the pressure to conform. They couldn’t justify bleaching out aspects of themselves in order to fit in. In short, they were at a crossroads: Would they plow forward by suppressing their difference—or by asserting it? By fitting in—or standing out? By conforming to the culture in which they found themselves—or owning their authenticity?</p>
<p class="indent">The results of our nationally representative survey brought this conflict into sharper focus. Forty-one percent of professionals of color said they had felt the need to compromise their authenticity in order to conform to EP standards at their company. A small minority of white respondents also conceded they felt the need to conform, of course, but people of color were significantly more likely than whites to feel this tension; indeed, a majority of African-American, Hispanic, and Asian professionals reported that they felt held to a stricter code of EP than their Caucasian peers. Overwhelmingly, the EP code they feel impelled to fit into is that embodied by white men.</p>
<p class="indent">This should come as no surprise. Everywhere you look—on magazine covers, websites, online journals, industry reports—you will find that corporate leaders in America are nearly always depicted as white men. A quick sampling of the magazines in my office archive reveals just how easy it is to conflate “the right stuff” of leadership with a certain phenotype. Above headlines such as “The Tests of a Leader” (<i>Harvard Business Review</i>) or “The Four Types of CEOs” (<i>Strategy + Business</i>) you’ll find someone who looks like Mitt Romney.</p>
<p class="indent"><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_161" title="161"/>What does conforming to this standard entail? For people of color, it means expending energy to repress ethnic identifiers in appearance, speech, behavior, and background. In our survey, a majority of Asian, African-American, and Hispanic respondents agreed with the statement “I have deliberately changed the way I tell my personal story in order to bolster my professional image.” Alarmingly, the more senior the respondent, the more likely he or she was to agree with that statement. This choice might reflect the realities confronted by an older generation. Then again, it might mean that the pathway to the top imposes increasingly heavy sacrifices for professionals of color.</p>
<p class="indent"><i>Invisible Lives</i>, a report CTI published in late 2005, was among the first to document the nature and extent of this sacrifice.<sup><a href="9780063270565_Notes.xhtml#renote107" id="enote107">107</a></sup> Coauthored by myself and Cornel West, the report quantifies not only the terrible cost to minority professionals who feel obliged to cordon off their church, their community, and their family lives in order to succeed at work, but also the cost to their employers, who miss out on the leadership skills minority professionals develop outside of work because they leave much of who they are at home. For two years, Stephanie, an African-American manager I interviewed who worked for a major fashion brand, illustrates perfectly the lose-lose of bleached-out professionalism. Stephanie had poured her heart into a weekend tutoring program she ran at a homeless shelter in Newark, New Jersey, a commitment that meant she had to leave her Manhattan office at 4:30 p.m. on Fridays. Even though she arrived at 7 a.m. on that day, she was acutely aware that, to her boss, her early departure signaled a lack of commitment. Yet she would not speak to him about her community involvement because she was fearful that if he knew he would see her through a new lens—not as an accomplished professional but as a Black girl from the projects. So Stephanie kept quiet about her volunteer role, despite the fact that her work with homeless children won her <span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_162" title="162"/>a Future Leader Today award in a ceremony at the White House. Her lack of candor wasn’t good for her or the company. She was passed over for a promotion (her boss continued to see her as disengaged). Shortly thereafter she left the company.</p>
<p class="indent">Like so many other minority professionals we interviewed, Stephanie saw herself as two people operating in two irreconcilable spheres: the highly effective and committed leader in her community, and the bleached-out professional on the job. To reveal one aspect of her identity in the community sphere would be to provide her employer with “ammunition,” or evidence that could be used against her to the degree that it reinforced racial stereotypes—a distrust that more than half of minority women we surveyed owned up to feeling.<sup><a href="9780063270565_Notes.xhtml#renote108" id="enote108">108</a></sup></p>
<p class="indent">Our focus groups and interviews confirmed the prevalence of Stephanie’s defensive behavior: Non-Caucasians expend an awful lot of energy cordoning off aspects of their personal lives. They don’t share, because they don’t feel comfortable sharing what they care most about, lest details about their children, political leanings, or community involvement undermine the impression they’re like everybody else at the firm. “For a long time I have left a large part of ‘me’ at home—the ‘me’ who has strong opinions on cultural and political issues—and adopted a persona at work that is more conservative, and less forthcoming, than I would otherwise be,” an Asian-American financial analyst explained. “The problem is the longer you do that, the more alienated you become because you are shutting off whole parts of yourself—and the more of yourself you risk losing.”</p>
<p class="indent">Walling off parts of your life will cost you not just emotionally but also professionally. Ray, an accountant, was for years two people: the person at work who conformed to the way everybody else looked and acted and sounded, and the person outside work who had southern roots, a southern drawl, and strong ties to his <span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_163" title="163"/>church and his African-American community. Recently he’s taken steps to reconcile those two personas, having taken a lead role in his firm’s Black affinity group. But his decision to no longer “hide his full identity” is due more to resignation, he says, than a change in the cultural climate at work. “I’ve gotten to the point where I no longer care,” Ray explains. “I’m not going to rise up the ladder at this company; I can’t even get on the teams or the projects where I could contribute valuable skills, even though I have twice the experience of some of my colleagues. It’s a case of the invisible man: the less you get to be yourself, the less likely others are to see your value, the fewer opportunities you will be given, and the less visible you will indeed become.”</p>
<p class="indent">The experience of minority professionals parallels that of another group: LGBT professionals who feel obliged to pass for straight at work<i>.</i> Nearly half of the gay professionals we surveyed for our report entitled <i>The Power of “Out”: LGBT in the Workplace</i>, said they remained closeted at work for fear of being ostracized by their colleagues and penalized by their superiors.<sup><a href="9780063270565_Notes.xhtml#renote109" id="enote109">109</a></sup> One-third of them literally live double lives, out to friends and family, but not to their coworkers and superiors. However, whether partially or fully closeted, these individuals expend considerable energy on remaining “off the gaydar” of their colleagues, watching their pronouns, lying about their significant others, or just not volunteering personal information at gatherings at the watercooler or lunch table. And as with minority professionals, that low profile costs them both personally and professionally. More than half of closeted LGBT workers told us they feel stalled in their careers, compared with the 36 percent of gay employees who are out at work. They’re more disengaged, too: They were 73 percent more likely than their out counterparts to say they intended to leave their firm within three years. Like bleached-out professionals of color, closeted gays become masters of neutrality and control and increasingly isolated and expendable.</p>
<p class="indent"><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_164" title="164"/>African-Americans in particular spoke to us of their struggle to conform to EP standards at work in terms of their communication. They’re careful to modulate their voice, tone, and language lest they affirm “historically embedded notions of being aggressive, angry people, people who will blow up,” as one interviewee put it. Joel Tealer, senior vice president of human resources, Strategic Business Units at Chubb Insurance Groups, says he’s learned to be “very careful” about the language he uses in any emotionally charged or fraught discussion. “As a multicultural manager, I need to be sure I’m balanced, because if I’m not—if I’m loud or animated or left-of-center—my audience, if they’re outside my culture, will judge me as less professional. White males have the ability to be further to the left and a little more animated when discussing volatile topics without being viewed negatively.”</p>
<p class="indent">African-American women likewise told us how carefully they step in order to tamp down the specter of the angry Black woman, behavior that exacts a toll not only on their authenticity, points out Judith Harrison, chief diversity officer at Weber Shandwick, but also on their productivity. “That struggle to muzzle themselves is just a sinkhole in terms of the time and energy it requires,” she says. “And that time could be so much better spent.”</p>
<p class="indent">Given these significant costs, why do professionals of color take such pains to rein in or paper over who they are to accommodate the expectations of their Caucasian peers and superiors? Because when you trumpet your difference, or make no effort to mute it, you are even more likely to become a target of unconscious bias or even overt discrimination.</p>
<p class="indent">For people of color as well as LGBTQ+ professionals, the corporate landscape bristles with land mines in the form of slights or snubs that serve as reminders of latent discrimination. Terri Austin, an attorney and chief diversity officer at McGraw-<span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_165" title="165"/>Hill Financial who previously served as chief compliance officer at AIG, recalls one C-suite meeting where the leading officer turned to her, the only woman and the only African-American in the room, to request that she take the minutes. “He was serious!” she says, still incredulous that, among equals at that table, she would be called out to render a secretary’s services. Fortunately her sponsor, who was then general counsel, intervened to insist that someone else be brought in to perform the task, as Austin wasn’t to do it. But the incident underscored for her the difficulties faced by executives of color operating in the uppermost tiers of management.</p>
<p class="indent">That racism still presses a heavy thumb on qualified minority professionals is affirmed by the results of our nationally representative survey. Hispanics, we found, are nearly three times more likely than their white colleagues to be mistaken for someone’s secretary or assistant. Twenty-two percent of African-Americans say they’re frequently mistaken for someone else of their own race. Most distressingly, fully 19 percent of African-Americans say their colleagues perceive them as “affirmative-action hires.” Across the board, people of color remain skeptical of their chances of success. More than a third of African-American respondents believe that a person of color would never get a top job at their company, a perception echoed by almost as many Asians and Hispanics.</p>
<p class="indent">So while the United States has made significant progress in providing equal access to higher education, and equal access to white-collar jobs, progression to the upper echelons of management is still extremely problematic for people of color. Confronted with Trevor Phillips’s fork in the road, most opt to continue hiding their difference lest it limit their ascent. Phillips’s protégé David, a Brit of Afro-Caribbean heritage, is a case in point: Recently offered the position of chair of the Black executive network at his company, he turned it down, explaining to Phillips that <span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_166" title="166"/>becoming “a poster child” for Black employees was just too risky. “He sees the whole D&amp;I [diversity and inclusiveness] mandate as a burden,” Phillips clarified for me. “He feels it will get in the way of him being taken seriously as a professional at the firm.”</p>
<p class="ahead">RESOLVING THE TENSION</p>
<p class="noindent">So to return to our question: If you’re different from most people at work, do you suppress that difference or embrace it in order to be perceived as leadership material?</p>
<p class="indent">Everyone we surveyed or spoke to affirmed the importance of authenticity, pointing out that no leader can win or retain followers without it. Everyone also agreed that succeeding in any organizational culture demands that you make accommodations to that culture. Even straight white men are obliged to conform, whether by dressing more formally than they’d like, reining in their happy-hour jokes, or purging their Facebook walls of incriminating photos. And conformity is hardly a corporate phenomenon: Small businesses ask that their employees mold themselves to fit a culture created by the founder/owner; educators operate within the boundaries established by their school boards, which are informed by state laws; public-sector employees answer to officials who answer to the public. For-profit or nonprofit, ultimately every organization operates within a narrow band of customer or shareholder or board approval. Even rule breakers like Groupon’s Andrew Mason, who seemingly reinvent the marketplace, must answer to the strictures imposed by that new marketplace—or be shoved aside and forced to reinvent themselves again. No matter who we are and where we work, that is, the workplace imposes norms around appearance, <span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_167" title="167"/>communication, and gravitas that we’d be fools to ignore if our intent is to thrive and not just survive.</p>
<p class="indent">Hence it may be helpful to discern where assimilating is tantamount to “playing the game” as opposed to “selling out.” Lawrence, an insurance industry senior vice president I interviewed, notes that conforming doesn’t necessarily involve a cost, and may even confer a benefit. By way of example, he describes his reasons for taking up golf, a sport that certainly wasn’t prevalent in the African-American community where he grew up. But, recognizing its power as a networking tool, he applied himself to the sport—and discovered he absolutely loved it. “Did it compromise me, to assimilate in this way? I don’t think so,” he reflects. “Ultimately succeeding is about networking and engaging with people. If you’re trying to get to know someone, an executive or senior leader, someone you don’t know much about or have much in common with, you need to focus on what they do and where their interests lie. And if there’s an opportunity to get involved in something that creates common ground, then you’d best take it, because it will give you the venue to share your personality and potential.” Reflecting on his rapid ascent within the firm, Lawrence adds, “In assimilating, you may find that you’re changing yourself more than they’re changing you—and in very positive ways.”</p>
<p class="indent">Michael, another insurance executive I interviewed, observed that accusing you of selling out can be your peer group’s way of ensuring you don’t break from their ranks. A small number of African-American colleagues who were great friends with him at the beginning of their careers together later rebuked him, Michael recalls, when he started differentiating himself in terms of seizing stretch opportunities and establishing strategic relationships. “Oh, you’re kissing up? You’ve decided you’re going to be white?” <span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_168" title="168"/>they taunted. Michael shrugged it off. “I’ve had people ever since I started to rise in management accuse me of not being true to myself or my heritage because I was doing what the majority of people in the organization do to get ahead,” he explains. “Well, what’s selling out? Working extra hours? Volunteering for assignments? Taking on more responsibility? That’s doing your job, <i>plus</i>—and that is going to get you ahead. I’ve found that sometimes when a group starts questioning your authenticity, then that’s a group trying to hold you back.”</p>
<p class="indent">The difficulty, of course, is that only <i>you</i> can determine what constitutes a compromise to your authenticity, as opposed to just a compromise. To help you make that call, I’ve amassed strategic and tactical advice from professionals of color who’ve been down this road.</p>
<p class="ahead">TACTICS</p>
<p class="noindentt">KNOW YOUR “NON-NEGOTIABLES” AND WALK AWAY</p>
<p class="noindent">Some cultures simply don’t deserve your best efforts. Weber Shandwick’s Judith Harrison recalls how early in her career she worked in an Arthur Young office where the office manager, who was also the head of HR, displayed an enormous Confederate flag over her desk. Harrison, who is African-American, labored for several years in this environment until she realized that the stress of working for a leader whom she couldn’t respect and who wouldn’t perceive her value was taking a toll on her health. “I had to remove myself,” she says. “It was making me physically sick, going into that situation every day, knowing that people did not see me the way I knew I deserved to be seen. Nothing is worth that.”</p>
<p class="indent">In hindsight, however, she’s glad to have had such a test at the outset of her career. “I think that it enabled me to develop much <span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_169" title="169"/>clearer convictions about what was important and what wasn’t, and to grow confidence in myself.”</p>
<p class="noindentt">NEVER TRY TO BE SOMEONE YOU’RE NOT</p>
<p class="noindent">Barbara Adachi, whom we met in an earlier chapter, was the first woman at Deloitte ever to head up a region, but she didn’t set out to be a trailblazer. Indeed, her tactic in the early years of her career was to simply emulate the “very strong” woman who was her first boss, as there were precious few other women to look up to as role models. Adachi, a petite woman of Japanese descent, was surprised at her boss’s client approach and style—she was very aggressive and often swore, but nonetheless was very effective with clients. Thinking this might be the path to success, Adachi convinced herself to adopt it on her next prospective client cold call.</p>
<p class="indent">She bombed.</p>
<p class="indent">“Oh, it was awful,” Adachi exclaims, shuddering as she remembers this long-ago incident. “‘<i>Who do you think you are, talking to me like that?</i>’” The client on the other end of the phone was incredulous. “‘<i>You’re not my wife!</i>’” It was a searing lesson for her in the importance of developing a leadership presence within her own style boundaries. “My boss could get away with it, but it just wasn’t me,” she reflects. “I was never going to be the loudest voice in the room, though I was under pressure to try. I had to accept that wasn’t my style and it could never work for me.”</p>
<p class="indent">Her own style has served her well: she made partner, she retired from Deloitte as national managing director for U.S. Human Capital (HC) Consulting.</p>
<p class="noindentt">PERCEIVE SLIGHTS AS OPPORTUNITIES TO ADDRESS IGNORANCE</p>
<p class="noindent">Michael, the senior executive we met earlier, describes how, when he moved to San Jose, California, with his company, the branch <span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_170" title="170"/>manager would arrive each week and, moving from one end of the hall to the other, dip in to each leader’s office to say hello and chitchat about the weekend, the kids, and interesting new projects in the pipeline. “Then he’d come to my office,” relates Michael. “‘Hey, Michael, what’s going on?’ he’d ask—and he’d move right on to the next person.” As the only minority in the company’s leadership it was easy, says Michael, to conclude that he was being slighted. And it occurred to him to respond like someone who’d been slighted. “I remember thinking, ‘If he doesn’t value me enough to want to get to know me, then I am going to some other company,’” Michael explains.</p>
<p class="indent">But he quickly realized he’d likely suffer from a career standpoint if he ignored the situation instead of addressing it head-on. So he took the initiative, seeking out the branch manager at every opportunity. “If he came in early, I came in early and found him,” says Michael. “I talked to him about things he was interested in. I’d done my homework and knew what activities he was involved with. We also talked about our families. It got to the point where I couldn’t get him out of my office and get work done.”</p>
<p class="indent">He adds, “It’s so easy to think that every slight might have something to do with your background or gender. It’s not to say there are no real snubs, but I’ve found that more often than not somebody’s coming from a place of ignorance rather than bigotry. If you’re overly sensitive to the possibility of intentional slights and withdraw as a result, you freeze yourself rather than move forward.”</p>
<p class="noindentt">SEEK AIR COVER BEFORE YOU STEP OUT TO ASSERT YOUR AUTHENTICITY</p>
<p class="noindent">One of the high points of her career, says Helen Forrester, a former SVP at a Silicon Valley technology firm, was being praised for her executive presence by the firm’s CEO—in front of 1,200 of the firm’s leaders. “Yesterday was an outstanding day for the women of this <span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_171" title="171"/>firm,” said the CEO as he opened the annual directors-and-above meeting, “and I want to personally thank Helen for her standout leadership.” He then asked her to stand up and be applauded by the mostly male audience. “I never felt so proud,” says Helen, shaking her head in disbelief. “I think sometimes, as women and as people of color, we avoid the spotlight because we’re afraid we’re going to pay a penalty for standing out and proactively attempting to earn the admiration and praise of executives. But we can’t let that fear stop us. We simply have to embrace who we are and learn to both seek and take credit for our successes.”</p>
<p class="indent">She didn’t get to bask in the glow of that success for long, however. Her sudden visibility threatened her then boss, she says, who went out of his way to keep her offstage and out of the CEO’s view. “The more presence I developed—I had the CEO’s executive coach working with me—the more brutally critical of me he became,” says Helen, a Latina with a master’s degree in industrial engineering as well as a master’s from Stanford in executive education. “‘Why are you talking to him?’ he’d question me. ‘You stay here, I’ll go deliver the numbers.’” As a result of the browbeating, she felt her confidence and control dissipate. “I didn’t know how to fight, so I did what I shouldn’t have: I let my emotions show when he would interrupt me during a presentation. I had no grace under fire.”</p>
<p class="indent">She might have weathered the assaults had her ally, the head of HR, not left the firm. But in the wake of her departure, Helen says, she was completely sponsorless. “I didn’t have a well-placed senior person to help me navigate,” she says, “someone looking out for me, someone who would run interference with my boss or secure me the CEO’s protection. You’ve got to have that air cover so that when you finally take the stage, everyone knows not to challenge your claim to it.” A few months later a demoralized and dispirited Helen left the company.</p>
<p class="noindentt"><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_172" title="172"/>DIFFERENTIATE YOURSELF BY WHAT MAKES YOU DIFFERENT</p>
<p class="noindent">Linda, the retail sector executive we met earlier, learned early in her career that her roots—she grew up in Africa—were going to assert themselves. “I hardly ever sound like anyone else in the room,” she says. “People try to piece together where I’m from, because I’ve spent a lot of time in London, but it’s mostly Africa that comes through, and it’s just different from anything they’ve ever heard.”</p>
<p class="indent">It took her a while to realize, however, that her accent allowed her to stand out and be heard in ways her female colleagues struggled with. “Women are more likely to be screened out and not heard than men,” she observes. “I am less likely to be invisible, because I sound different and look different. I decided this was an opportunity to be noticed.”</p>
<p class="indent">In the end it is these powerful inescapable differences that most distinguish her as a leader. “I have an advantage as a Black woman from Africa,” she elaborates, “because by definition, I am the ‘only one’ at a leadership table and colleagues are constrained to be more tolerant and open. Everyone must be much more intentional about how they express themselves. No one is able to get away with the statement, ‘So-and-so may not be capable because she’s a woman.’ It is pretty clear that that sort of thing will not fly. With regard to perceptions of women and Black people, leaders in my division are shaped by spending time with me. So then, that trickles down to their teams.”</p>
<p class="indent">The previous year, a diversity magazine named Linda to their list of top executive leaders under age fifty, honoring her for bringing her distinctive brand and values to the teams she manages worldwide. “People are afraid to talk about gender and race,” she says. “I’m better able than most to create an environment where it’s possible to have an open, honest dialogue—and not hide behind some of the politically correct labels—to get at what the real issues are.”</p>
<p class="ahead"><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_173" title="173"/>UNDERSTAND THE DIVERSITY DIVIDEND</p>
<p class="noindent">In figuring out the hows and whys of lifting up your authenticity in the workplace, consider how the landscape for professionals of color is shifting. As our economy grows ever more globalized and competition intensifies, companies are under ever greater pressure to innovate—both to retain market share and capture new markets in underserved populations. CTI research reveals that, by representing some of those underleveraged markets, diverse voices around decision-making tables hold the key to innovating more effectively.<sup><a href="9780063270565_Notes.xhtml#renote110" id="enote110">110</a></sup></p>
<p class="indent">Other CTI research shows that innate diversity on teams—having members who are female, nonwhite, or of non–European origin—boosts the team’s innovative potential by providing critical insight into the needs and wants of overlooked or underserved end users.<sup><a href="9780063270565_Notes.xhtml#renote111" id="enote111">111</a></sup></p>
<p class="indent">Marketing teams with just one Hispanic member, for example, are nearly twice as likely to understand—and effectively solve for—the problems inherent to convincing older Latinos to see a doctor about prostate trouble. R&amp;D teams with just one native African member are, again, almost twice as likely to understand, and innovate products and services for, the millions of sub-Saharan consumers who grapple with limited access to reliable power and clean water. In case study after case study, in this CTI research we see that innate difference brings unique understanding and vital insight to solving intractable problems, or to realizing unfulfilled market potential. At Morgan Stanley, one openly gay financial advisor spearheaded an accreditation campaign in domestic-partner estate planning that won the firm some $120 million in client assets because affluent members of the LGBT community preferred to work with financial advisors who <span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_174" title="174"/>understood their unique predicament. At Standard Chartered, one female executive (a native of India) drove the transformation of two bank branches in Kolkata and New Delhi into all-women branches, a move which drove up net sales at these bank branches by an impressive 127 percent and 75 percent, respectively, from 2009 to 2010. (This compared with a paltry 48 percent average among the bank’s other ninety-plus Indian branches.)</p>
<p class="indent">Our findings underscore that there is a “diversity dividend”: When companies and leaders know how to harness and leverage gender, generation, ethnicity, race, sexual orientation, and culture, there is a significant impact on the bottom line.</p>
<p class="indent">Innate difference is worth embracing for at least one other important reason: It can help win you a sponsor.<sup><a href="9780063270565_Notes.xhtml#renote112" id="enote112">112</a></sup> A sponsor is a leader who’s committed to seeing you succeed and will go out on a limb to make sure you do. Sponsors are more powerful than mentors, because they’re more vested in you. They advocate for your next promotion, steer plum assignments your way, and protect you as you move up the learning curve because they see how their star will rise in conjunction with yours. My several studies on “The Sponsor Effect” demonstrate that not only are protégés of color more likely to be satisfied with their rate of advancement when they have a sponsor, but also that <i>sponsors</i> with protégés of color are more likely to be satisfied with their career progress (as compared to nonsponsors).<sup><a href="9780063270565_Notes.xhtml#renote113" id="enote113">113</a></sup></p>
<p class="indent">That is to say, it is precisely your difference that your superiors need to burnish their brand, build their team, extend their innovative capabilities, and ultimately succeed as leaders. It is your toolkit—the way you approach problems as a result of coming from a different background—that makes you worth sponsoring. It is your network, your access to clients or markets they might not otherwise be able to access, that makes you valuable in growing<span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_175" title="175"/> their own networks. It is, finally, your insight into end users like yourself that gives them a competitive edge in the relentless competition to innovate. In this brave new world, the organization absolutely needs you to bring your whole self to work.</p>
<p class="indent">So don’t downplay your difference. Commit to owning it.<span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_176" title="176"/></p>
</section>
</body>
</html>