<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Executive Presence 2.0</title>
<link href="../styles/9780063270565_template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:9673925c-8907-4289-b2ab-15cb30d78281" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section>
<h2 class="fmh" id="not"><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_267" title="267"/><a href="9780063270565_Contents.xhtml#rnot">Notes</a></h2>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_1.xhtml#enote1" id="renote1">1.</a><span class="sp1"/>Identities have been disguised.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_1.xhtml#enote2" id="renote2">2.</a><span class="sp1"/>Chia-Jung Tsay, “Sight over Sound in the Judgment of Music Performance,” <i>Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences in the United States of America</i> 110, no. 36 (2013): 14580–85, published online before print, August 19, 2013.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_1.xhtml#enote3" id="renote3">3.</a><span class="sp1"/>Kweilin Ellingrud, Alexis Krivkovich, Marie-Claude Nadeau, and Jill Zucker, “Closing the Gender and Race Gaps in North American Financial Services,” October 21, 2021, https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/financial-services/our-insights/closing-the-gender-and-race-gaps-in-north-american-financial-services.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_2.xhtml#enote4" id="renote4">4.</a><span class="sp1"/>ABC News, “Top BP Executive Bob Dudley on ‘Top Kill’ Failure,” interview on <i>This Week with George Stephanopoulos</i>, uploaded May 30, 2010, http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kup3nTBo_-A&amp;list=PLC8BBAB0172164E53&amp;index=117.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_2.xhtml#enote5" id="renote5">5.</a><span class="sp1"/><i>PBS NewsHour</i>, “‘America Speaks to BP’ Full Transcript: Bob Dudley Interview,” air date July 1, 2010, http://www.pbs.org/newshour/bb/environment/july-dec10/dudleyfull_07-01.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_2.xhtml#enote6" id="renote6">6.</a><span class="sp1"/>The War in Afghanistan began on October 7, 2001, when the armed forces of the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia, France, and the Afghan United Front (Northern Alliance) launched Operation Enduring Freedom. See http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/nation/specials/attacked/transcripts/bushaddress_100801.htm.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_2.xhtml#enote7" id="renote7">7.</a><span class="sp1"/>Jack Welch and Suzy Welch, “J.P. Morgan: Jamie Dimon and the Horse He Fell Off,” <i>Fortune</i>, May 24, 2012, http://management.fortune.cnn.com/2012/05/24/j-p-morgan-jamie-dimon-and-the-horse-he-fell-off/.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_2.xhtml#enote8" id="renote8">8.</a><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_268" title="268"/><span class="sp1"/>Hugh Son, “Jamie Dimon says ‘This Part of the Crisis Is Over’ After JPMorgan Chase Buys First Republic,” CNBC, May 1, 2023, https://www.cnbc.com/2023/05/01/jamie-dimon-jpmorgan-first-republic.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_2.xhtml#enote9" id="renote9">9.</a><span class="sp1"/>“Worst Moments of My Life: Pilot Tells of Ditching in Hudson,” <i>Sydney Morning Herald</i>, February 6, 2009, http://www.smh.com.au/news/world/audio-reveals-exactly-what-happened--a-hrefhttpmediasmhcomaurid45888blistenba/2009/02/06/1233423442580.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_2.xhtml#enote10" id="renote10">10.</a><span class="sp2"/>Tim Webb, “BP Boss Admits Job on the Line over Gulf Oil Spill,” <i>Guardian</i>, May 13, 2010, http://www.theguardian.com/business/2010/may/13/bp-boss-admits-mistakes-gulf-oil-spill.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_2.xhtml#enote11" id="renote11">11.</a><span class="sp2"/>Stanley Reed, “Tony Hayward Gets His Life Back,” <i>New York Times</i>, September 1, 2012, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/02/business/tony-hayward-former-bp-chief-returns-to-oil.html?pagewanted=all.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_2.xhtml#enote12" id="renote12">12.</a><span class="sp2"/>Claire Cain Miller and Catherine Rampell, “Yahoo Orders Home Workers Back to the Office,” <i>New York Times</i>, February 25, 2013, http://www.nytimes.com/2013/02/26/technology/yahoo-orders-home-workers-back-to-the-office.html?pagewanted=all.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_2.xhtml#enote13" id="renote13">13.</a><span class="sp2"/>Kara Swisher, “‘Physically Together’: Here’s the Internal Yahoo No-Work-from-Home Memo for Remote Workers and Maybe More,” All Things D blog, February 22, 2013, http://allthingsd.com/20130222/physically-together-heres-the-internal-yahoo-no-work-from-home-memo-which-extends-beyond-remote-workers/.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_2.xhtml#enote14" id="renote14">14.</a><span class="sp2"/>Richard Branson, “Give People the Freedom of Where to Work,” blog, February 25, 2013, http://www.virgin.com/richard-branson/give-people-the-freedom-of-where-to-work.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_2.xhtml#enote15" id="renote15">15.</a><span class="sp2"/>Charles Wallace, “Keep Taking the Testosterone,” <i>Financial Times</i>, February 9, 2012, http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/68015bb2-51b8-11e1-a99d-00144feabdc0.html#axzz2NG4LUhfT.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_2.xhtml#enote16" id="renote16">16.</a><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_269" title="269"/><span class="sp2"/>Cenegenics website, http://www.cenegenics-nyc.com/mens-age-management-new-york-city.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_2.xhtml#enote17" id="renote17">17.</a><span class="sp2"/>Cindy Perman, “Wall Street’s Secret Weapon for Getting an Edge,” CNBC, July 11, 2012, http://www.cnbc.com/id/48149955.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_2.xhtml#enote18" id="renote18">18.</a><span class="sp2"/>Mayo Clinic website, “Testosterone Therapy: Key to Male Vitality?,” http://www.mayoclinic.com/health/testosterone-therapy/MC00030/NSECTIONGROUP=2, accessed October 4, 2013.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_2.xhtml#enote19" id="renote19">19.</a><span class="sp2"/>Massimo Calabrisi, “Governor Christie on Sandy, Romney and Obama,” <i>Time,</i> October 30, 2012, http://swampland.time.com/2012/10/30/gov-christie-on-sandy-romney-and-obama/.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_2.xhtml#enote20" id="renote20">20.</a><span class="sp2"/>Kate Zernike, “One Result of Hurricane: Bipartisanship Flows,” <i>New York Times</i>, October 31, 2012, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/01/nyregion/in-stunning-about-face-chris-christie-heaps-praise-on-obama.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_2.xhtml#enote21" id="renote21">21.</a><span class="sp2"/>Burgess Everett, “Chris Christie on Hurricane Sandy: Holdouts Are ‘Stupid and Selfish,’” <i>Politico</i>, October 29, 2012, http://www.politico.com/news/stories/1012/83007.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_2.xhtml#enote22" id="renote22">22.</a><span class="sp2"/>“Chris Christie Criticizes Obama for ‘Posing and Preening’ as President,” <i>Star-Ledger</i>, May 20, 2012, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/05/20/chris-christie-obama_n_1531471.html; “Gov. Christie: Obama Is ‘Posing and Preening,’ Not Resolving Issues as President,” NJ.com, May 20, 2012, http://www.nj.com/news/index.ssf/2012/05/gov_christie_obama_is_posing_a.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_2.xhtml#enote23" id="renote23">23.</a><span class="sp2"/>Christina Rexrode, “Struggling Bank of America Shakes Up Exec Ranks,” AP on Yahoo, September 7, 2011, http://news.yahoo.com/struggling-bank-america-shakes-exec-ranks-225348682.html; Halah Touryalai, “Bank of America’s Latest Peril: Losing Merrill Lynch?,” <i>Forbes</i> blog, September 2, 2013, http://www.forbes.com/sites/halahtouryalai/2011/09/02/bank-of-americas-latest-peril-losing-merrill-lynch/.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_2.xhtml#enote24" id="renote24">24.</a><span class="sp2"/>Daniel Goleman, <i>Emotional Intelligence</i> (New York: Bantam Books, 1995).</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_2.xhtml#enote25" id="renote25">25.</a><span class="sp2"/>Kara Swisher, “Survey Says: Despite Yahoo Ban, Most Tech Companies Support Work-from-Home for Employees,” All Things D blog, February 25, 2013, http://allthingsd.com/20130225/survey-says-despite-yahoo-ban-most-tech-companies-support-work-from-home-for-employees/.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_2.xhtml#enote26" id="renote26">26.</a><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_270" title="270"/><span class="sp2"/>Robin J. Ely and Debra E. Meyerson, “An Organizational Approach to Undoing Gender: The Unlikely Case of Offshore Oil Platforms,” <i>Research in Organizational Behavior</i> 30 (2010): 3–34.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_2.xhtml#enote27" id="renote27">27.</a><span class="sp2"/>Andrea Tantaros, “Material Girl Michelle Obama Is a Modern-Day Marie Antoinette on a Glitzy Spanish Vacation,” editorial, <i>Daily News</i>, August 5, 2010, http://www.nydailynews.com/opinion/material-girl-michelle-obama-modern-day-marie-antoinette-glitzy-spanish-vacation-article-1.200134?pgno=1.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_2.xhtml#enote28" id="renote28">28.</a><span class="sp2"/>See, for example, Shawna Thomas, “Michelle Obama: ‘Hadiya Pendleton Was Me and I Was Her,’” NBC News, April 10, 2013, http://firstread.nbcnews.com/_news/2013/04/10/17692560-michelle-obama-hadiya-pendleton-was-me-and-i-was-her?lite.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_2.xhtml#enote29" id="renote29">29.</a><span class="sp2"/>Leah Hope, “Obama Center ‘Winter Garden’ to Honor Chicago Teen Killed Days after Performing at Inauguration,” <i>ABC News</i>, January 28, 2022, https://abc7chicago.com/obama-presidential-center-hadiya-pendleton-chicago-shooting-winter-garden/11517110/.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_2.xhtml#enote30" id="renote30">30.</a><span class="sp2"/>“Angelina Jolie Fact Sheet,” UNHCR, http://www.unhcr.org/pages/49db77906.html, accessed October 4, 2013.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_3.xhtml#enote31" id="renote31">31.</a><span class="sp2"/>The study, conducted by Quantified Impressions, analyzed financial executives’ communication effectiveness by applying a suite of software tools developed in conjunction with the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University and enlisting a panel of experts along with one thousand listeners to augment the digital analysis. The most effective financial spokesperson turned out to be Richard Davis, CEO of US Bancorp, because he appeared “genuine, emotionally connected to his audience, and relaxed in front of the camera,” according to Quantified’s president, Noah Zandan. http://www.quantifiedimpressions.com/blog/quantified-impressions-new-scientific-analysis-of-top-financial-communicators-pinpoints-how-speakers-build-trust-influence-audiences/.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_3.xhtml#enote32" id="renote32">32.</a><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_271" title="271"/><span class="sp2"/>Quantified Impressions study.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_3.xhtml#enote33" id="renote33">33.</a><span class="sp2"/>Cited by Sue Shellenbarger in “Is This How You Really Talk?,” <i>Wall Street Journal</i>, April 23, 2013, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424127887323735604578440851083674898.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_3.xhtml#enote34" id="renote34">34.</a><span class="sp2"/>Charles Moore, “The Invincible Mrs. Thatcher,” <i>Vanity Fair</i>, December 2011, http://www.vanityfair.com/politics/features/2011/12/margaret-thatcher-201112.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_3.xhtml#enote35" id="renote35">35.</a><span class="sp2"/>David Baker, “Hollywood Vocal Coach Helped Margaret Thatcher Lose Her ‘Shrill Tones,’”<i> Mail Online</i>, February 5, 2012, http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2096785/Hollywood-vocal-coach-helped-Margaret-Thatcher-lose-shrill-tones.html; Moore, “The Invincible Mrs. Thatcher.”</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_3.xhtml#enote36" id="renote36">36.</a><span class="sp2"/>William J. Mayew, Christopher A. Parsons, and Mohan Venkatachalam, “Voice Pitch and the Labor Market Success of Male Chief Executive Officers,” <i>Evolution and Human Behavior</i> 34 (2013): 243–48.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_3.xhtml#enote37" id="renote37">37.</a><span class="sp2"/>Melissa Korn, “What Does a Successful CEO Sound Like? Try a Deep Bass,” <i>Wall Street Journal</i>, April 18, 2013, http://blogs.wsj.com/atwork/2013/04/18/what-does-a-successful-ceo-sound-like-try-a-deep-bass/?blog_id=226&amp;post_id=882&amp;mod=wsj_valettop_email.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_3.xhtml#enote38" id="renote38">38.</a><span class="sp2"/>“Americans Speak Out, Select the ‘Best and Worst Voices in America’ in Online Polling by the Center for Voice Disorders of Wake Forest University,” press release, Wake Forest University Baptist Medical Center, September 10, 2001, http://www.nrcdxas.org/articles/voices.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_3.xhtml#enote39" id="renote39">39.</a><span class="sp2"/>William J. Mayew and Mohan Venkatachalam, “Voice Pitch and the Labor Market Success of Male Chief Executive Officers,” Sidney Winter Lecture Series, April 12, 2013, http://tippie.uiowa.edu/accounting/mcgladrey/winterpapers/mpv_ehb_accepted%20-%20mayew.pdf.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_3.xhtml#enote40" id="renote40">40.</a><span class="sp2"/>Sue Shellenbarger, “Is This How You Really Talk?,” <i>Wall Street Journal</i>, April 23, 2013, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424127887323735604578440851083674898.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_3.xhtml#enote41" id="renote41">41.</a><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_272" title="272"/><span class="sp2"/>Huffingtonpost.com audience measurement, Quantcast, http://www.quantcast.com/huffingtonpost.com, accessed April 4, 2013.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_3.xhtml#enote42" id="renote42">42.</a><span class="sp2"/>Erik Hedegaard, “Beauty and the Blog: <i>Rolling Stone</i>’s 2006 Feature on Arianna Huffington,” <i>Rolling Stone</i>, December 14, 2006, http://www.rollingstone.com/culture/news/beauty-and-the-blog-rolling-stones-2006-feature-on-arianna-huffington-20110207#ixzz2gIpcBwfa.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_3.xhtml#enote43" id="renote43">43.</a><span class="sp2"/>Allen Dodds Frank, “Former Wall Street Executive Sallie Krawcheck Critiques Financial Reform Policy,” <i>Daily Beast,</i> October 16, 2012, http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/10/16/former-wall-street-executive-sallie-krawcheck-critiques-financial-reform-policy.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_3.xhtml#enote44" id="renote44">44.</a><span class="sp2"/>Carol Kinsey Goman, “The Body Language Winner of the Third Presidential Debate,” <i>Forbes</i>, October 23, 2012, http://www.forbes.com/sites/carolkinseygoman/2012/10/23/the-body-language-winner-of-the-third-presidential-debate/.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_3.xhtml#enote45" id="renote45">45.</a><span class="sp2"/>When only first names are used they are pseudonyms. Identifying details have been changed to protect confidentiality.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_3.xhtml#enote46" id="renote46">46.</a><span class="sp2"/>See Amy Cuddy’s TED talk at http://www.ted.com/talks/amy_cuddy_your_body_language_shapes_who_you_are.html, posted October 2012.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_3.xhtml#enote47" id="renote47">47.</a><span class="sp2"/>Kate Murphy, “The Right Stance Can Be Reassuring,” <i>New York Times</i>, May 3, 2013, http://www.nytimes.com/2013/05/05/fashion/the-right-stance-can-be-reassuring-studied.html?emc=eta1&amp;_r=0.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_3.xhtml#enote48" id="renote48">48.</a><span class="sp2"/>Elise Hu, “Campaign Trail Tears: The Changing Politics of Crying,” NPR, November 25, 2011, http://www.npr.org/2011/11/25/142599676/campaign-trail-tears-the-changing-politics-of-crying.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_3.xhtml#enote49" id="renote49">49.</a><span class="sp2"/><i>Saturday Night Live</i>, “Democratic Debate ’88,” transcript from Season 13, Episode 10, available at http://snltranscripts.jt.org/87/87jdemocrats.phtml.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_3.xhtml#enote50" id="renote50">50.</a><span class="sp2"/>Nancy Benac, “Has the Political Risk of Emotion, Tears Faded?,” <i>USA Today</i>, December 19, 2007, http://usatoday30.usatoday.com/news/politics/election2008/2007-12-19-emotion-politics_N.htm.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_4.xhtml#enote51" id="renote51">51.</a><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_273" title="273"/><span class="sp2"/>Photos reprinted with permission. http://www.plosone.org/article; Nancy L. Etcoff, Shannon Stock, Lauren E. Haley, Sarah A. Vickery, and David M. House, “Cosmetics as a Feature of the Extended Human Phenotype: Modulation of the Perception of Biologically Important Facial Signals,” <i>PLoS ONE</i> 6, no. 10 (2011): e25656, 2011, doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0025656.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_4.xhtml#enote52" id="renote52">52.</a><span class="sp2"/>Etcoff et al., “Cosmetics as a Feature of the Extended Human Phenotype,” 7.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_4.xhtml#enote53" id="renote53">53.</a><span class="sp2"/>Check out the Occupy Wall Street debate at the Oxford Union Society on YouTube: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CoWiV6Q8qME.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_4.xhtml#enote54" id="renote54">54.</a><span class="sp2"/>Deborah L. Rhode, <i>The Beauty Bias: The Injustice of Appearance in Life and Law</i> (New York: Oxford University Press, 2010).</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_4.xhtml#enote55" id="renote55">55.</a><span class="sp2"/>Timothy Noah, “Chris Christie’s Crowd-Sourced Weight Is . . . ,” <i>New Republic</i>, September 30, 2011, http://www.newrepublic.com/blog/timothy-noah/95641/chris-christies-crowd-sourced-weight#.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_4.xhtml#enote56" id="renote56">56.</a><span class="sp2"/>John Kenney, “The Unbearable Lightness of Leading,” <i>New York Times</i>, March 6, 2010, http://www.nytimes.com/2010/03/07/opinion/07kenney.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_4.xhtml#enote57" id="renote57">57.</a><span class="sp2"/>OPEN N.Y., “The Measure of a President,” <i>New York Times</i>, October 6, 2008, http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2008/10/06/opinion/06opchart.html?_r=0.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_4.xhtml#enote58" id="renote58">58.</a><span class="sp2"/>Leslie Kwoh, “Want to Be CEO? What’s Your BMI?,” <i>Wall Street Journal</i>, January 16, 2013, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424127887324595704578241573341483946.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_4.xhtml#enote59" id="renote59">59.</a><span class="sp2"/>Rhode,<i> The Beauty Bias</i>, 21.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_4.xhtml#enote60" id="renote60">60.</a><span class="sp2"/>Julie Creswell and Matthew Futterman, “Nike’s Chief Executive, Mark Parker, Is Stepping Down,” <i>New York Times</i>, October 22, 2019, https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/22/business/nike-ceo-mark-parker.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_4.xhtml#enote61" id="renote61">61.</a><span class="sp2"/>Ben Shapiro, <i>Project President: Bad Hair and Botox on the Road to the White House</i> (Nashville, TN: Thomas Nelson, 2007), 53.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_4.xhtml#enote62" id="renote62">62.</a><span class="sp2"/>Ibid., 54.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_4.xhtml#enote63" id="renote63">63.</a><span class="sp2"/>OPEN N.Y., “The Measure of a President.”</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_4.xhtml#enote64" id="renote64">64.</a><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_274" title="274"/><span class="sp2"/>Shapiro, <i>Project President</i>, 54.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_4.xhtml#enote65" id="renote65">65.</a><span class="sp2"/>“Diana Taylor Addresses Her and Bloomberg’s Height Difference,” <i>Huffington Post</i>, January 10, 2011, updated January 10, 2012, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/01/10/diana-taylor-bloomberg-do_n_807031.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_4.xhtml#enote66" id="renote66">66.</a><span class="sp2"/>Chris Woolston, “A Costly Turf War,” <i>Los Angeles Times</i>, January 29, 2012, http://articles.latimes.com/2012/jan/29/image/la-ig-balding-20120129.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_4.xhtml#enote67" id="renote67">67.</a><span class="sp2"/>Dr. Dominic Castellano, “Botox Statistics You Need to Know in 2023,” December 12, 2021, https://www.elitetampa.com/blog/botox-statistics-you-need-to-know/.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_4.xhtml#enote68" id="renote68">68.</a><span class="sp2"/>“Brotox? Cosmetic Procedures Rise, Growing Number of Men Turn to Botox,” <i>ABC Action News</i>, WXYZ, June 14, 2013, http://www.wxyz.com/dpp/news/brotox-cosmetic-procedures-rises-growing-number-of-men-turn-to-botox.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_4.xhtml#enote69" id="renote69">69.</a><span class="sp2"/>The Aesthetic Society, “Statistics 2020–2021,” //efaidnbmnnnibpcajpcglclefindmkaj/https://cdn.theaestheticsociety.org/media/statistics/2021-TheAestheticSocietyStatistics.pdf.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_4.xhtml#enote70" id="renote70">70.</a><span class="sp2"/>Melissa Preddy, “Quicktips: From Upper-Arm Tucks to Up-in-Arms Truckers,” Reynolds Center, BusinessJournalism.org, April 30, 2013, http://businessjournalism.org/2013/04/30/quicktips-from-upper-arm-tucks-to-up-in-arms-truckers/.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_4.xhtml#enote71" id="renote71">71.</a><span class="sp2"/>William J. vanden Heuvel, “LETTERS: Another Look at F.D.R.,” <i>New York Times</i>, January 12, 2010, http://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res=9C02E4DF1F30F931A25752C0A9669D8B63.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_4.xhtml#enote72" id="renote72">72.</a><span class="sp2"/>Ibid.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_4.xhtml#enote73" id="renote73">73.</a><span class="sp2"/>Sylvia Ann Hewlett, <i>#MeToo in the Corporate World: Power, Privelege, and the Path Forward</i> (New York: Harper Business, 2020), 23–38.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_4.xhtml#enote74" id="renote74">74.</a><span class="sp2"/>Sylvia Ann Hewlett, <i>#MeToo in the Corporate World: Power, Privelege and the Path Forward</i> (New York: Harper Business, 2020), pages 91–113.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_4.xhtml#enote75" id="renote75">75.</a><span class="sp2"/>Margaret Thatcher, “Speech to Finchley Conservatives,” January 31, 1976, Margaret Thatcher Foundation, http://www.margaretthatcher.org/document/102947.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_4.xhtml#enote76" id="renote76">76.</a><span class="sp2"/>Michael Cockerell, “How to Be a Tory Leader,” <i>Telegraph</i>, December 1, 2005, http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/3648425/How-to-be-a-Tory-leader.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_4.xhtml#enote77" id="renote77">77.</a><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_275" title="275"/><span class="sp2"/>Stephen Moss, “Looking for Maggie,” <i>Guardian</i>, March 6, 2003, http://www.theguardian.com/books/2003/mar/07/biography.media.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_5.xhtml#enote78" id="renote78">78.</a><span class="sp2"/>Women in the Workplace Study, Lean In, 2022, https://leanin.org/women-in-the-workplace/2022/the-state-of-the-pipeline.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_5.xhtml#enote79" id="renote79">79.</a><span class="sp2"/>Sylvia Ann Hewlett, <i>Forget a Mentor, Find a Sponsor: The New Way to Fast-Track Your Career</i> (Boston, Mass.: Harvard Business Review Press, 2013), 27–50.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_6.xhtml#enote80" id="renote80">80.</a><span class="sp2"/>“Jesse Jackson Slams Obama for ‘Acting Like He’s White’ in Jena 6 Case,” ABC News, September 19, 2007, http://abcnews.go.com/blogs/headlines/2007/09/jesse-jackson-s/.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_6.xhtml#enote81" id="renote81">81.</a><span class="sp2"/>Stanley Crouch, “What Obama Isn’t: Black Like Me on Race,” <i>New York Daily News</i>, November 2, 2006, http://www.nydailynews.com/Archives/Opinions/Obama-Isnt-Black-Race-Article-1.585922.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_6.xhtml#enote82" id="renote82">82.</a><span class="sp2"/>Sylvia Hewlett, Kerrie Peraino, Laura Sherbin, and Karen Sumberg, “The Sponsor Effect: Breaking Through the Last Glass Ceiling,” <i>Harvard Business Review</i> Research Report, December 2010, 26.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_6.xhtml#enote83" id="renote83">83.</a><span class="sp2"/>Virginia E. Schein, “The Relationship Between Sex Role Stereotypes and Requisite Management Characteristics,” <i>Journal of Applied Psychology</i> 57 (1973): 95–100; Virginia E. Schein, “The Relationship Between Sex Role Stereotypes and Requisite Management Characteristics Among Female Managers,” <i>Journal of Applied Psychology</i> 60 (1975): 340–44; Virginia E. Schein, “Managerial Sex Typing: A Persistent and Pervasive Barrier to Women’s Opportunities,” in M. Davidson and R. Burke, eds., <i>Women in Management: Current Research Issues</i> (London: Paul Chapman, 1994).</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_6.xhtml#enote84" id="renote84">84.</a><span class="sp2"/>“Women ‘Take Care,’ Men ‘Take Charge’: Stereotyping of U.S. Business Leaders Exposed,” Catalyst, 2005, http://www.catalyst.org/knowledge/women-take-care-men-take-charge-stereotyping-us-business-leaders-exposed.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_6.xhtml#enote85" id="renote85">85.</a><span class="sp2"/>See Veronica F. Nieva and Barbara A. Gutek, “Sex Effects on Evaluation,” <i>Academy of Management Review</i> 5, no. 2 (1980).</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_6.xhtml#enote86" id="renote86">86.</a><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_276" title="276"/><span class="sp2"/>Peggy McIntosh, “White Privilege: Unpacking the Invisible Knapsack,” <i>Peace and Freedom</i>, July/August 1989.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_6.xhtml#enote87" id="renote87">87.</a><span class="sp2"/>“How Are Powerful Women Perceived,” <i>Anderson Cooper 360</i>, CNN, March 12, 2013, http://www.cnn.com/video/data/2.0/video/bestoftv/2013/03/13/ac-powerful-women-experiment.cnn.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_6.xhtml#enote88" id="renote88">88.</a><span class="sp2"/>Madeline E. Heilman, Aaron S. Wallen, Daniella Fuchs, and Melinda M. Tamkins, “Penalties for Success: Reactions to Women Who Succeed at Male Gender-Typed Tasks,” <i>Journal of Applied Psychology</i> 89, no. 3 (2004): 416–27.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_6.xhtml#enote89" id="renote89">89.</a><span class="sp2"/>Kim M. Elsesser and Janet Lever, “Does Gender Bias Against Female Leaders Persist? Quantitative and Qualitative Data from a Large-Scale Survey,” <i>Human Relations</i> 64, no. 12 (2011): 1555–78, http://hum.sagepub.com/content/64/12/1555.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_6.xhtml#enote90" id="renote90">90.</a><span class="sp2"/>Oliver Balch, “The Bachelet Factor: The Cultural Legacy of Chile’s First Female President,” <i>Guardian</i>, December 13, 2009, http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2009/dec/13/michelle-bachelet-chile-president-legacy.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_6.xhtml#enote91" id="renote91">91.</a><span class="sp2"/>Ibid.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_6.xhtml#enote92" id="renote92">92.</a><span class="sp2"/>Katrin Bennhold, “Taking the Gender Fight Worldwide,” <i>New York Times</i>, March 29, 2011, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/03/30/world/europe/30iht-letter30.html?page-wanted=2&amp;ref=michellebachelet.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_6.xhtml#enote93" id="renote93">93.</a><span class="sp2"/>Patricia Sellers, “Facing Up to the Female Power Conundrum,” CNN Money, January 31, 2011, http://postcards.blogs.fortune.cnn.com/2011/01/31/facing-up-to-the-female-power-conundrum/.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_6.xhtml#enote94" id="renote94">94.</a><span class="sp2"/>Jessica Valenti, “She Who Dies with the Most ‘Likes’ Wins?,” <i>Nation</i>, November 29, 2012, http://www.thenation.com/blog/171520/she-who-dies-most-likes-wins.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_6.xhtml#enote95" id="renote95">95.</a><span class="sp2"/>Sheryl Sandberg, <i>Lean In: Women, Work, and the Will to Lead</i> (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 2013), 40.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_6.xhtml#enote96" id="renote96">96.</a><span class="sp2"/>“The Double-Bind Dilemma for Women in Leadership: Damned If You Do, Doomed If You Don’t,” Catalyst, 2007, http://www.catalyst.org/knowledge/double-bind-dilemma-women-leadership-damned-if-you-do-doomed-if-you-dont-0.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_6.xhtml#enote97" id="renote97">97.</a><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_277" title="277"/><span class="sp2"/>David Mattingly, “Michelle Obama Likely Target of Conservative Attacks,” CNN.com, June 12, 2008, http://www.cnn.com/2008/POLITICS/06/12/michelle.obama/.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_6.xhtml#enote98" id="renote98">98.</a><span class="sp2"/>Jeremy Holden, “Fox News’ E. D. Hill Teased Discussion of Obama Dap: ‘A Fist Bump? A Pound? A Terrorist Fist Jab?,’” June 6, 2008, cited on Media Matters for America, http://mediamatters.org/video/2008/06/06/fox-news-ed-hill-teased-discussion-of-obama-dap/143674.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_6.xhtml#enote99" id="renote99">99.</a><span class="sp2"/>Avery Stone, “What If Paula Deen Had Called Someone a Fag?,” HuffPost Blog, July 1, 2013, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/avery-stone/what-if-paula-deen-had-called-someone-a-fag_b_3526186.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_6.xhtml#enote100" id="renote100">100.</a><span class="sp3"/>“Ireland Baldwin Talks About Father Alec Baldwin’s Infamous ‘Pig’ Voicemail,” <i>Huffington Post</i>, September 6, 2012, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/09/06/ireland-baldwin-alec-baldwin-pig-call_n_1861892.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_6.xhtml#enote101" id="renote101">101.</a><span class="sp3"/>Diane Johnson, “Christine Lagarde: Changing of the Guard,” <i>Vogue</i>, September 2011, 706, http://www.vogue.com/magazine/article/christine-lagarde-changing-of-the-guard/#1.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_6.xhtml#enote102" id="renote102">102.</a><span class="sp3"/>Ibid.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_6.xhtml#enote103" id="renote103">103.</a><span class="sp3"/>Richard Branson, “Richard Branson on Taking Risks,” <i>Entrepreneur</i>, June 10, 2013, http://www.entrepreneur.com/article/226942.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_6.xhtml#enote104" id="renote104">104.</a><span class="sp3"/>Eleanor Clift, “Kirsten Gillibrand’s Moment: Women’s Champion vs. Military Assaults,” <i>Daily Beast</i>, May 10, 2013, http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2013/05/10/kirsten-gillibrand-s-moment-women-s-champion-vs-military-assaults.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_6.xhtml#enote105" id="renote105">105.</a><span class="sp3"/>Steve Williams, “Elizabeth Warren: It Gets Better,” Care2, January 27, 2012, http://www.care2.com/causes/elizabeth-warren-it-gets-better-video.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_7.xhtml#enote106" id="renote106">106.</a><span class="sp3"/>Sanford Levinson, “Identifying the Jewish Lawyer: Reflections on the Construction of Professional Identity,” <i>Cardozo Law Review</i> 14, no. 1577 (1993): 1578–79. Interestingly, Levinson also used the multilingual metaphor to describe his spheres of identity as a Jewish lawyer.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_7.xhtml#enote107" id="renote107">107.</a><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_278" title="278"/><span class="sp3"/>Sylvia Ann Hewlett, Carolyn Buck Luce, Cornel West, Helen Chernikoff, Danielle Samalin, and Peggy Shiller, <i>Invisible Lives: Celebrating and Leveraging Diversity Talent in the Executive Suite</i> (New York: Center for Work-Life Policy, 2005). The Center for Work-Life Policy changed its name to the Center for Talent Innovation in 2012.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_7.xhtml#enote108" id="renote108">108.</a><span class="sp3"/>Ibid.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_7.xhtml#enote109" id="renote109">109.</a><span class="sp3"/>Sylvia Ann Hewlett and Karen Sumberg, <i>The Power of “Out”: LGBT in the Workplace</i> (New York: Center for Work-Life Policy, 2011).</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_7.xhtml#enote110" id="renote110">110.</a><span class="sp3"/>Sylvia Ann Hewlett, Melinda Marshall, and Laura Sherbin, with Tara Gonsalves, <i>Innovation, Diversity, and Market Growth</i> (New York: Center for Talent Innovation, 2013); Sylvia Ann Hewlett, Melinda Marshall, and Laura Sherbin, “How Diversity Can Drive Innovation,” <i>Harvard Business Review</i>, December 2013.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_7.xhtml#enote111" id="renote111">111.</a><span class="sp3"/>Ibid.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_7.xhtml#enote112" id="renote112">112.</a><span class="sp3"/>Sylvia Ann Hewlett, <i>Forget a Mentor, Find a Sponsor: The New Way to Fast-Track Your Career</i> (Boston, Mass.: Harvard Business Review Press, 2013).</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_7.xhtml#enote113" id="renote113">113.</a><span class="sp3"/>Sylvia Ann Hewlett, <i>The Sponsor Effect</i> (Boston, Mass.: Harvard Business Review Press, 2019), 21–22.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Part_2.xhtml#enote114" id="renote114">114.</a><span class="sp3"/>Per-Ola Karlsson, DeAnne Aguirre, and Kristin Rivera, “Are CEOs Less Ethical Than in the Past?,” PricewaterhouseCoopers, no. 87, Summer 2017, https://www.pwc.com/ee/et/publications/pub/sb87_17208_Are_CEOs_Less_Ethical_Than_in_the_Past.pdf.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Part_2.xhtml#enote115" id="renote115">115.</a><span class="sp3"/>Andrew Ross Sorkin et al., “Tracking the Epstein Scandal’s Fallout,” <i>New York Times,</i> May 21, 2021, https://www.nytimes.com/2021/05/21/business/dealbook/jeffrey-epstein-resignations.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote116" id="renote116">116.</a><span class="sp3"/>Between January and August 2022, I conducted seventy-three interviews with executives across a range of industries (finance, tech, auto, pharma, law, professional services, media, fashion, and gaming). A third of those I interviewed are established leaders who were involved in the research that fed into my 2014 book, <i>Executive Presence: The Missing Link between Merit and Success.</i> The other two-thirds are up-and-coming leaders whom I’ve gotten to know in recent years through my consulting practice. These executives are half a generation younger than the established leaders I interviewed and considerably more diverse. They tend to work in the “new” as opposed to the “old” economy. DraftKings, Splunk, Blizzard Entertainment, and TikTok rather than GE, Credit Suisse, or BP.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote117" id="renote117">117.</a><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_279" title="279"/><span class="sp3"/>Daniel Goleman, <i>Emotional Intelligence: Why It Can Matter More Than IQ</i> (New York: Random House, 2005), https://www.danielgoleman.info/.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote118" id="renote118">118.</a><span class="sp3"/>Ray Suarez, “America Speaks to BP,” full transcript, Bob Dudley interview, <i>PBS NewsHour</i>, July 1, 2010, https://www.pbs.org/newshour/show/america-speaks-to-bp-full-transcript-bob-dudley-interview.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote119" id="renote119">119.</a><span class="sp3"/>Rowena Mason, “Gulf of Mexico Oil Spill: BP Insists Oil Spill Impact Will Be ‘Very Modest,’” <i>Telegraph</i>, May 18, 2010, https://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/newsbysector/energy/oilandgas/7737805/Gulf-of-Mexico-oil-spill-BP-insists-oil-spill-impact-very-modest.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote120" id="renote120">120.</a><span class="sp3"/>Gus Lubin, “BP CEO Tony Hayward Apologizes for His Idiotic Statement: ‘I’d Like My Life Back,’” <i>Business Insider</i>, June 2, 2010, https://www.businessinsider.com/bp-ceo-tony-hayward-apologizes-for-saying-id-like-my-life-back-2010-6.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote121" id="renote121">121.</a><span class="sp3"/>Sylvia Ann Hewlett, Melinda Marshall, and Laura Sherbin, with Tara Gonsalves, <i>Innovation, Diversity, and Market Growth</i> (New York: Center for Talent Innovation, 2013).</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote122" id="renote122">122.</a><span class="sp3"/>Sylvia Ann Hewlett, <i>#MeToo in the Corporate World: Power, Privilege, and the Path Forward</i> (New York: Harper Business, 2020), 22–36.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote123" id="renote123">123.</a><span class="sp3"/>“National Governors Association Winter Meeting, Innovation and Workforce Skills,” C-SPAN, February 25, 2018, https://www.c-span.org/video/?441465-3/national-governors-association-winter-meeting-innovation-workforce-skills.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote124" id="renote124">124.</a><span class="sp3"/>Ibid.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote125" id="renote125">125.</a><span class="sp3"/>Member Profile, 2016 Horatio Alger Award Recipient, Virginia M. Rometty, https://horatioalger.org/members/member-detail/virginia-m-rometty<i>.</i></p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote126" id="renote126">126.</a><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_280" title="280"/><span class="sp3"/>Sophie Rivera-Silverstein, “IBM’s Ginni Rometty on Responsibility and Technology,” Aspen Institute, December 16, 2019, https://www.aspeninstitute.org/blog-posts/ibms-ginni-rometty-on-responsibility-and-technology/.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote127" id="renote127">127.</a><span class="sp3"/>Benson Buster, “Ex-Amazon Manager: Jeff Bezos Is ‘Obsessed’ with This Decision-Making Style—‘It’s His Key to Success,’” CNBC, November 14, 2019, https://www.cnbc.com/2019/11/14/how-billionaire-jeff-bezos-makes-fast-smart-decisions-under-pressure-says-ex-amazon-manager.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote128" id="renote128">128.</a><span class="sp3"/>Peter Economy, “Amazon’s 14 Leadership Principles Can Lead You and Your Business to Remarkable Success,” <i>Inc.,</i> November 18, 2019, https://www.inc.com/peter-economy/the-14-amazon-leadership-principles-that-can-lead-you-your-business-to-tremendous-success.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote129" id="renote129">129.</a><span class="sp3"/>Tom Alberg, “What I’ve Learned from Watching Jeff Bezos Make Decisions Up Close,” <i>Fast Company</i>, November 2, 2021, excerpted from Tom Alberg, <i>Flywheels: How Cities Are Creating Their Own Futures</i> (New York: Columbia Business School Publishing, 2021), https://www.fastcompany.com/90691896/what-ive-learned-from-watching-jeff-bezos-make-decisions-up-close.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote130" id="renote130">130.</a><span class="sp3"/>“Roger Ferguson to Retire as President and CEO of TIAA,” press release, TIAA, November 17, 2020, https://www.tiaa.org/public/about-tiaa/news-press/press-releases/2020/11-17.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote131" id="renote131">131.</a><span class="sp3"/>Jenna McGregor, “TIAA Is the First Company in Fortune 500 History to Have Two Black CEOs in a Row,” <i>Washington Post</i>, February 25, 2021, https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/2021/02/25/tiaa-is-first-company-fortune-500-history-have-two-black-ceos-row/.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote132" id="renote132">132.</a><span class="sp3"/>Sylvia Ann Hewlett and Kennedy Ihezie, “20% of White Employees Have Sponsors. Only 5% of Black Employees Do,” <i>Harvard Business Review</i>, February 10, 2022, https://hbr.org/2022/02/20-of-white-employees-have-sponsors-only-5-of-black-employees-do#:~:text=Employees%20Have%20Sponsors.-,Only%205%25%20of%20Black%20Employees%20Do.,retain%20and%20advance%20Black%20talent.&amp;text=The%20power%20of%20sponsorship%20to%20transform%20careers%20is%20now%20well%20known.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote133" id="renote133">133.</a><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_281" title="281"/><span class="sp3"/>Sylvia Ann Hewlett, <i>The Sponsor Effect</i> (Boston, Mass.: Harvard Business Review Press, 2019), 57.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote134" id="renote134">134.</a><span class="sp3"/>McGregor, “TIAA Is the First Company in Fortune 500 History to Have Two Black CEOs in a Row.”</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote135" id="renote135">135.</a><span class="sp3"/>Tanaya Macheel, “Most Powerful Women in Banking: Thasunda Brown Duckett, JPMorgan Chase,” <i>American Banker</i>, September 29, 2020, https://www.americanbanker.com/news/most-powerful-women-in-banking-for-2020-thasunda-brown-duckett-jpmorgan-chase.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote136" id="renote136">136.</a><span class="sp3"/>David Gelles, “Marc Benioff of Salesforce: ‘Are We All Not Connected?,’” <i>New York Times</i>, June 15, 2018, https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/15/business/marc-benioff-salesforce-corner-office.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote137" id="renote137">137.</a><span class="sp3"/>Garrett Parker, “10 Things You Didn’t Know About Marc Benioff,” <i>Money, Inc</i>., September 19, 2016, https://moneyinc.com/things-you-didnt-know-about-marc-benioff/.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote138" id="renote138">138.</a><span class="sp3"/>Michal Lev-Ram, “Force of Nature: How the Unstoppable Marc Benioff Fueled Salesforce’s Stratospheric Rise,” <i>Fortune</i>, June 3, 2021, https://fortune.com/longform/marc-benioff-salesforce-slack-acquisition-diversity-inclusion-fortune-500/.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote139" id="renote139">139.</a><span class="sp3"/>Margaret Sullivan, “Four Reasons the Jan. 6 Hearings Have Conquered the News Cycle,” <i>Washington Post</i>, July 22, 2022, https://www.washingtonpost.com/media/2022/07/22/jan6-hearings-news-cycle-media/.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote140" id="renote140">140.</a><span class="sp3"/>Benjamin Wallace-Wells, “Liz Cheney’s Kamikaze Campaign,” <i>New Yorker</i>, August 10, 2022, https://www.newyorker.com/news/the-political-scene/liz-cheneys-kamikaze-campaign.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote141" id="renote141">141.</a><span class="sp3"/>Paul Kane, “Liz Cheney’s Political Life Is Likely Ending—and Just Beginning,” <i>Washington Post</i>, August 15, 2022, https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2022/08/15/liz-cheneys-political-life-is-likely-ending-just-beginning/.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote142" id="renote142">142.</a><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_282" title="282"/><span class="sp3"/>Liz Cheney, “The GOP Is at a Turning Point. History Is Watching Us,” <i>Washington Post</i>, May 5, 2021, https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2021/05/05/liz-cheney-republican-party-turning-point/.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote143" id="renote143">143.</a><span class="sp3"/>Vivek Wadhwa, Ismail Amla, and Alex Salkever, <i>From Incremental to Exponential: How Large Companies Can See the Future and Rethink Innovation</i> (Oakland, CA: Berrett-Koehler, 2020).</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote144" id="renote144">144.</a><span class="sp3"/>Sachin Waikar, “Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella: Be Bold and Be Right,” <i>Insights</i>, Stanford Graduate School of Business, November 26, 2019, https://www.gsb.stanford.edu/insights/microsoft-ceo-satya-nadella-be-bold-be-right.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote145" id="renote145">145.</a><span class="sp3"/>Kashmir Hill, “Microsoft Plans to Eliminate Face Analysis Tools in Push for ‘Responsible A.I.,’” <i>New York Times</i>, June 21, 2022, https://www.nytimes.com/2022/06/21/technology/microsoft-facial-recognition.html#:~:text=the%20main%20story-,Microsoft%20Plans%20to%20Eliminate%20Face%20Analysis%20Tools%20in%20Push%20for,of%20its%20facial%20recognition%20tool.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote146" id="renote146">146.</a><span class="sp3"/>Austin Carr and Dina Bass, “The Most Valuable Company (for Now) Is Having a Nadellaissance,” Bloomberg, May 2, 2019, https://www.bloomberg.com/news/features/2019-05-02/satya-nadella-remade-microsoft-as-world-s-most-valuable-company.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote147" id="renote147">147.</a><span class="sp3"/>Heather Haddon, “McDonald’s Fires CEO Steve Easterbrook over Relationship with Employee,” <i>Wall Street Journal</i>, November 4, 2019, https://www.wsj.com/articles/mcdonalds-fires-ceo-steve-easterbrook-over-relationship-with-employee-11572816660.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote148" id="renote148">148.</a><span class="sp3"/>Ibid.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote149" id="renote149">149.</a><span class="sp3"/>David Enrich and Rachel Abrams, “McDonald’s Sues Former C.E.O., Accusing Him of Lying and Fraud,” <i>New York Times</i>, August 10, 2020, https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/10/business/mcdonalds-ceo-steve-easterbrook.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote150" id="renote150">150.</a><span class="sp3"/>Stephen Castle and Peter Robins, “How Boris Johnson Fell, and What Happens Next,” <i>New York Times</i>, July 19, 2022, https://www.nytimes.com/article/boris-johnson-prime-minister-explained.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote151" id="renote151">151.</a><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_283" title="283"/><span class="sp3"/>Ibid.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_8.xhtml#enote152" id="renote152">152.</a><span class="sp3"/>Sylvia Ann Hewlett, <i>The Sponsor Effect</i> (Boston, Mass.: Harvard Business Review Press, 2019), pages 72–74.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_9.xhtml#enote153" id="renote153">153.</a><span class="sp3"/>Charles McNulty, “Gustavo Dudamel’s Captivating Theatrics Serve the Music,” <i>Los Angeles Times</i>, October 27, 2012, https://www.latimes.com/entertainment/arts/la-xpm-2012-oct-27-la-et-cm-dudamel-notebook-20121028-story.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_9.xhtml#enote154" id="renote154">154.</a><span class="sp3"/>Lisa Lerer and Sydney Ember, “Examining Tara Reade’s Sexual Assault Allegation Against Joe Biden,” <i>New York Times</i>, September 20, 2020, https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/12/us/politics/joe-biden-tara-reade-sexual-assault-complaint.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_9.xhtml#enote155" id="renote155">155.</a><span class="sp3"/>Jane Mayer, “The Case of Al Franken,” <i>New Yorker</i>, July 22, 2019, https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2019/07/29/the-case-of-al-franken.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_9.xhtml#enote156" id="renote156">156.</a><span class="sp3"/>Carmine Gallo, “How Steve Jobs Made Presentations Look Effortless,” <i>Forbes</i>, March 26, 2015, https://www.forbes.com/sites/carminegallo/2015/03/26/how-steve-jobs-made-presentations-look-effortless/?sh=20d888316bf6.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_9.xhtml#enote157" id="renote157">157.</a><span class="sp3"/>Walter Isaacson, “The Real Leadership Lessons of Steve Jobs,” <i>Harvard Business Review</i>, April 2012, https://hbr.org/2012/04/the-real-leadership-lessons-of-steve-jobs.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_9.xhtml#enote158" id="renote158">158.</a><span class="sp3"/>Jon Wertheim and Jessica Luther, “Inside the Corrosive Workplace Culture of the Dallas Mavericks,” <i>Sports Illustrated</i>, February 20, 2018, https://www.si.com/nba/2018/02/21/dallas-mavericks-sexual-misconduct-investigation-mark-cuban-response.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_9.xhtml#enote159" id="renote159">159.</a><span class="sp3"/>Doyle Rader, “Dallas Mavericks Win NBA Inclusion Leadership Award,” <i>Forbes</i>, January 17, 2020, https://www.forbes.com/sites/doylerader/2020/01/17/dallas-mavericks-win-nba-inclusion-leadership-award-cynt-marshall/?utm_source=TWITTER&amp;utm_medium=social&amp;utm_content=3068412047&amp;utm_campaign=sprinklrSportsMoneyTwitter&amp;sh=3d45fd1c2d54.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_9.xhtml#enote160" id="renote160">160.</a><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_284" title="284"/><span class="sp3"/>Sylvia Ann Hewlett,<i> #MeToo in the Corporate World: Power, Privilege, and the Path Forward</i> (New York: Harper Business, 2020), 117–91.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_9.xhtml#enote161" id="renote161">161.</a><span class="sp3"/>“Jørgen Vig Knudstorp,” profile, <i>EuropeanCEO</i>, March 15, 2010, https://www.europeanceo.com/profiles/jrgen-vig-knudstorp-lego/.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_9.xhtml#enote162" id="renote162">162.</a><span class="sp3"/>Laura Ross, “Lessons from Leaders: Jørgen Vig Knudstorp,” Thomas Insights, September 14, 2021, https://www.thomasnet.com/insights/lessons-from-leaders-j-rgen-vig-knudstorp/.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_9.xhtml#enote163" id="renote163">163.</a><span class="sp3"/>Jenna McGregor, “Brick by Brick: The Man Who Rebuilt the House of Lego Shares His Leadership Secrets,” <i>Washington Post</i>, December 8, 2016, https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/on-leadership/wp/2016/12/08/brick-by-brick-the-man-who-rebuilt-the-house-of-lego-shares-his-leadership-secrets/.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_9.xhtml#enote164" id="renote164">164.</a><span class="sp3"/>Andrew O’Connell, “Lego CEO Jørgen Vig Knudstorp on Leading Through Growth and Survival,” <i>Harvard Business Review</i>, January 2009, https://hbr.org/2009/01/lego-ceo-jorgen-vig-knudstorp-on-leading-through-survival-and-growth#:~:text=J%C3%B8rgen%20Vig%20Knudstorp%2C%20a%20former%20McKinsey%20consultant%20who,and%20opened%20it%20to%20ideas%20from%20enthusiastic%20users.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_9.xhtml#enote165" id="renote165">165.</a><span class="sp3"/>Sapna Maheshwari and Vanessa Friedman, “Victoria’s Secret Swaps Angels for ‘What Women Want.’ Will They Buy It?,” <i>New York Times</i>, June 16, 2021, https://www.nytimes.com/2021/06/16/business/victorias-secret-collective-megan-rapinoe.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_9.xhtml#enote166" id="renote166">166.</a><span class="sp3"/>Cavenagh Research, “Victoria’s Secret: Market Is Mispricing the Company’s Value,” Seeking Alpha, July 14, 2022, https://seekingalpha.com/article/4523323-victorias-secret-market-mispricing-company-value.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_9.xhtml#enote167" id="renote167">167.</a><span class="sp3"/>Tyler Stone, “Eddie Glaude: July 4th ‘Has Always Been an Incredibly Vexed Holiday for Me,’” RealClear Politics, July 1, 2022, https://www.realclearpolitics.com/video/2022/07/01/eddie_glaude_july_4th_has_always_been_an_incredibly_vexed_holiday_for_me.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_9.xhtml#enote168" id="renote168">168.</a><span class="sp3"/>Brian Phillips, “What Makes Superstar Conductor Gustavo Dudamel So Good?,” <i>New York Times</i>, November 1, 2018, https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/01/magazine/gustavo-dudamel-los-angeles-philharmonic.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_9.xhtml#enote169" id="renote169">169.</a><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_285" title="285"/><span class="sp3"/>Ibid.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_9.xhtml#enote170" id="renote170">170.</a><span class="sp3"/>Katie Thomas and Reed Abelson, “Elizabeth Holmes, Theranos C.E.O. and Silicon Valley Star, Accused of Fraud,” <i>New York Times</i>, March 14, 2018, https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/14/health/theranos-elizabeth-holmes-fraud.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_9.xhtml#enote171" id="renote171">171.</a><span class="sp3"/>Avery Hartmans, Sarah Jackson, Aline Cain, and Azmi Haroun, “The Rise and Fall of Elizabeth Holmes, the Former Theranos CEO Found Guilty of Wire Fraud and Conspiracy, Whose Sentencing Has Now Been Delayed,” <i>Business Insider</i>, updated January 20, 2023, https://www.businessinsider.com/theranos-founder-ceo-elizabeth-holmes-life-story-bio-2018-4.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_9.xhtml#enote172" id="renote172">172.</a><span class="sp3"/>Emma Powell, “Women Who Work Remotely Will Hurt Their Careers Says Bank of England’s Catherine Mann,” <i>Times</i> (London), November 11, 2021, https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/women-who-work-remotely-could-damage-their-careers-says-bank-of-england-s-catherine-mann-cfvc7qgxx.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_9.xhtml#enote173" id="renote173">173.</a><span class="sp3"/>Callum Borchers, “Think Working from Home Won’t Hurt Your Career? Don’t Be So Sure,” <i>Wall Street Journal</i>, June 9, 2022, https://www.wsj.com/articles/think-working-from-home-wont-hurt-your-career-dont-be-so-sure-11654725511.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_10.xhtml#enote174" id="renote174">174.</a><span class="sp3"/>Lydia Saad and Ben Wigert, “Remote Work Persisting and Trending Permanent,” Gallup, October 13, 2021, https://news.gallup.com/poll/355907/remote-work-persisting-trending-permanent.aspx.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_10.xhtml#enote175" id="renote175">175.</a><span class="sp3"/>Katrin Bennhold, “In Finland, a Partying Prime Minister Draws Tuts and Cheers,” <i>New York Times</i>, August 27, 2022, https://www.nytimes.com/2022/08/27/world/europe/sanna-marin-finland-pm-party.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_10.xhtml#enote176" id="renote176">176.</a><span class="sp3"/>David Nakamura, “Trump, Japan’s Abe Work on Strengthening Ties—but Also, Change Them After Awkward Coincidence,” <i>Washington Post</i>, April 18, 2018, https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2018/04/18/trump-japans-abe-work-on-strengthening-ties-but-also-change-them-after-awkward-coincidence/.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_10.xhtml#enote177" id="renote177">177.</a><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_286" title="286"/><span class="sp3"/>Alexandra Alter, “Amanda Gorman Captures the Moment, in Verse,” <i>New York Times</i>, January 19, 2021, https://www.nytimes.com/2021/01/19/books/amanda-gorman-inauguration-hill-we-climb.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_10.xhtml#enote178" id="renote178">178.</a><span class="sp3"/>Katherine Clarke, “The Omaha House Where Warren Buffett Launched His Business Empire Asks $799,000,” <i>Wall Street Journal</i>, April 13, 2022, https://www.wsj.com/articles/warren-buffett-omaha-house-for-sale-11649865478.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_10.xhtml#enote179" id="renote179">179.</a><span class="sp3"/>“Three Lectures by Warren Buffett to Notre Dame Faculty, MBA Students and Undergraduate Students,” Spring 1991, Whitney Tilson’s Value Investing Website, https://www.tilsonfunds.com/BuffettNotreDame.pdf, 15.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_10.xhtml#enote180" id="renote180">180.</a><span class="sp3"/>Nicolas Vega, “Warren Buffett Is ‘Halfway’ Through Giving Away His Massive Fortune. Here’s Why His Kids Will Get Almost None of His $100 Billion,” CNBC, June 23, 2021, https://www.cnbc.com/2021/06/23/why-warren-buffett-isnt-leaving-his-100-billion-dollar-fortune-to-his-kids.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_10.xhtml#enote181" id="renote181">181.</a><span class="sp3"/>Debanjali Bose, “Warren Buffett Just Became the Longest-Serving CEO of an S&amp;P Company. Take a Look Inside His Incredible Life and Career,” <i>Insider</i>, February 20, 2020, https://www.businessinsider.com/warren-buffett-incredible-life-2017-5.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_10.xhtml#enote182" id="renote182">182.</a><span class="sp3"/>Catie Edmondson, “How Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez Learned to Play by Washington’s Rules,” <i>New York Times</i>, September 18, 2019, https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/18/us/politics/alexandria-ocasio-cortez-washington.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_10.xhtml#enote183" id="renote183">183.</a><span class="sp3"/>Liz Robbins, “She’s Pumped. Your Turn,” <i>New York Times</i>, March 18, 2009, https://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/19/fashion/19fitness.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_10.xhtml#enote184" id="renote184">184.</a><span class="sp3"/>“Controversy over the New Yorker’s Cover Illustration of Obamas,” <i>New York Times</i>, July 14, 2008, https://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/14/world/americas/14iht-york.3.14484322.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_10.xhtml#enote185" id="renote185">185.</a><span class="sp3"/>Katherine Fung, “Michelle Obama’s Favorability Rating Nearly 20 Points Higher Than Trump, Biden and Pence’s: Poll,” <i>Newsweek</i>, August 18, 2020, https://www.newsweek.com/michelle-obamas-favorability-rating-nearly-20-points-higher-trump-biden-pences-poll-1525850.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_10.xhtml#enote186" id="renote186">186.</a><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_287" title="287"/><span class="sp3"/>Staff, “Health Hacks from the World’s Favourite Billionaire, Richard Branson,” <i>Australian Men’s Health</i>, May 1, 2021, https://www.menshealth.com.au/richard-branson-workout-routine/.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_10.xhtml#enote187" id="renote187">187.</a><span class="sp3"/>Sapna Maheshwari, “The Office Beckons. Time for Your Sharpest ‘Power Casual,’” <i>New York Times</i>, April 29, 2022, https://www.nytimes.com/2022/04/29/business/casual-workwear-clothes-office.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_10.xhtml#enote188" id="renote188">188.</a><span class="sp3"/>Kristijan Lucic, “Pixel Watch Shown by Google CEO During Interview,” Android Headlines, September 7, 2022, https://www.androidheadlines.com/2022/09/pixel-watch-shown-by-google-ceo.html.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_10.xhtml#enote189" id="renote189">189.</a><span class="sp3"/>Glynda Alves, “Google CEO Sundar Pichai Masters the Art of Casual Dressing,” <i>Economic Times</i>, February 5, 2016, https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/magazines/panache/google-ceo-sundar-pichai-masters-the-art-of-casual-dressing/articleshow/51133240.cms?from=mdr.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_10.xhtml#enote190" id="renote190">190.</a><span class="sp3"/>Avery Hartmans, “Silicon Valley’s Ultimate Status Symbol Is the Sneaker. Here Are the Rare, Expensive, and Goofy Shoes Worn by the Top Tech CEOs,” <i>Business Insider</i>, March 15, 2019, https://www.businessinsider.com/sneakers-worn-by-tech-execs-2017-5#.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_10.xhtml#enote191" id="renote191">191.</a><span class="sp3"/>Emma Goldberg, “What Sheryl Sandberg’s ‘Lean In’ Has Meant to Women,” <i>New York Times</i>, June 2, 2022, https://www.nytimes.com/2022/06/02/business/sheryl-sandberg-lean-in.html#:~:text=The%20book%20sold%20over%20four,Sandberg’s%20advice%20as%20a%20guide.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_10.xhtml#enote192" id="renote192">192.</a><span class="sp3"/>Rebecca Greenfield, “Sheryl Sandberg’s ‘Lean In’ Missed What Most Women Needed,” Bloomberg, June 3, 2022, https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-06-03/sheryl-sandberg-s-lean-in-missed-what-women-wanted#xj4y7vzkg.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_10.xhtml#enote193" id="renote193">193.</a><span class="sp3"/>Glenn Kessler, “Zelensky’s Famous Quote of ‘Need Ammo, Not a Ride,’ Not Easily Confirmed,” <i>Washington Post</i>, March 6, 2022, https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2022/03/06/zelenskys-famous-quote-need-ammo-not-ride-not-easily-confirmed/.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_10.xhtml#enote194" id="renote194">194.</a><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_288" title="288"/><span class="sp3"/>Edward Segal, “As Ukraine Resists Russian Invasion, Zelensky Demonstrates These Leadership Lessons,” <i>Forbes</i>, March 1, 2022, https://www.forbes.com/sites/edwardsegal/2022/03/01/as-ukraine-resists-russian-invasion-zelenskyy-demonstrates-these-leadership-lessons/?sh=4a896b593837.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_10.xhtml#enote195" id="renote195">195.</a><span class="sp3"/>Aatish Taseer, “How Rudy Giuliani Went from 9/11’s Hallowed Mayor to 2021’s Haunted Ghoul,” <i>Vanity Fair</i>, September 2021, https://www.vanityfair.com/news/2021/08/how-rudy-giuliani-went-from-911s-hallowed-mayor-to-2021s-haunted-ghoul.</p>
<p class="note"><a href="9780063270565_Chapter_10.xhtml#enote196" id="renote196">196.</a><span class="sp3"/>Katrin Bennhold, “In Finland, a Partying Prime Minister Draws Tuts, and Cheers,” <i>New York Times</i>, August 27, 2022, https://www.nytimes.com/2022/08/27/world/europe/sanna-marin-finland-pm-party.html.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>