<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Executive Presence 2.0</title>
<link href="../styles/9780063270565_template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:9673925c-8907-4289-b2ab-15cb30d78281" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section>
<h2 class="pn" id="pt2"><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_177" title="177"/><a href="9780063270565_Contents.xhtml#rpt2">Part II</a></h2>
<h2 class="pt"><a href="9780063270565_Contents.xhtml#rpt2">Executive Presence 2.0</a></h2>
<p class="noindent">Executive presence is not static. This is particularly true in turbulent times, and the years since <i>Executive Presence: The Missing Link Between Merit and Success</i> was published have been marked by a great deal of turbulence. Over the last eight years, companies and organizations have been hit by seismic changes in the external environment, including the Black Lives Matter and #MeToo movements, a global pandemic, and a European war. As a result, what leaders look for in their bench strength of talent has evolved and shifted.</p>
<p class="indent">To explore this evolution and update my original research (the survey that underpinned my 2014 book was fielded in 2012), during 2022 and the early months of 2023, I conducted seventy-three interviews with executives across various industries. My goal was twofold: to collect a second round of data and engage in an in-depth conversation with established and up-and-coming corporate leaders operating in a vastly changed world.</p>
<p class="indent">These leaders were carefully selected. A third are seasoned executives (in their fifties) who participated in my earlier research on Executive Presence and have developed views on how EP has evolved over the last decade, while two-thirds are younger executives (in their late thirties and early forties) whom I’ve met through my consulting practice. This latter group is much more diverse—in terms of gender, race, and sexual orientation—and is <span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_178" title="178"/>much more global. I went out of my way to select executives who “sit” in London, Munich, São Paulo, Shanghai, Reykjavík, and New Delhi as well as in New York and Palo Alto. In addition, to ensure I went beyond the usual suspects, I selected a number of executives who lead companies at the cutting edge of the new economy. I wanted insights from leaders at Splunk, DraftKings, Blizzard Entertainment, and Plum Alley Investments, as well as JPMorgan, AIG, and Cisco. Finally, I interviewed executives from the arts. Individuals who curate art exhibitions, lead dance companies, and head up music organizations have a lot to say about the direction of our culture.</p>
<p class="indent">These in-depth conversations allowed me to gauge how much leadership models have changed in response to the new circumstances. I found that while many sought-after traits have remained the same—the ability to project confidence or command a room has not gone out of style—others have changed.</p>
<p class="indent">In the gravitas bucket, CEOs seek to promote up-and-comers who can telegraph not just EQ but inclusion, which is a much more complex endeavor. In the communication bucket, they’re looking to advance individuals who can inspire teams on Zoom and Webex as well as face-to-face. And in the appearance bucket, they’re fast-tracking individuals who’ve nailed the new normal. It’s a bewildering world on the professional “look” front. Whether employees are remote, hybrid, or back in the office full-time, they’re looking for role models who can help them display leadership chops in business casual. One thing’s for sure: Sweats and sloppy sneakers don’t cut the mustard in 2023’s new normal.</p>
<p class="indent">If sought-after EP traits have shifted, so have EP blunders. Mistakes and missteps that landed a manager or an executive in trouble ten years ago (being lightweight or crying are examples), while still problematic, are less damaging. Nowadays, the big whopper of a blunder is sexual misconduct. No matter how exalted<span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_179" title="179"/> or successful you are (think Harvey Weinstein, Andy Rubin, or Steve Easterbrook), there’s no coming back from being credibly accused of sexual harassment or assault. There’s a great deal of evidence on this front. Longitudinal analysis done by PwC shows that post-#MeToo, sexual misconduct has become the main reason executives fall from grace and are shown the door, displacing financial malfeasance and incompetence.<sup><a href="9780063270565_Notes.xhtml#renote114" id="enote114">114</a></sup> Increasingly, corporate boards are approaching allegations of sexual indiscretions and abuse with a “zero-tolerance” stance. Even associating with a sexual predator can sully a leader’s reputation (and potentially their company) irreparably. Leon Black’s ouster from Apollo Global Management illustrates this point.<sup><a href="9780063270565_Notes.xhtml#renote115" id="enote115">115</a></sup></p>
<p class="indent">Where do these insights leave our 2012 EP model?</p>
<p class="indent">The comforting news is that despite changes and shifts, the core principles of Executive Presence laid out eight years ago remain remarkably constant. Gravitas (how you behave) is still two-thirds of the EP equation and continues to center on projecting confidence, signaling decisiveness, and demonstrating a compelling vision of where you want to take a team or an organization. The new and the old survey data show that confidence, decisiveness, and vision are among the top six picks in both 2022 and 2012.</p>
<p class="indent">Communication (how you speak) is still almost a third of the EP equation and continues to center on superior speaking skills, commanding a room, and utilizing body language. The new, as well as the old data, show these three traits to be top picks in both 2012 and 2022. There are, of course, some important tweaks. In 2022, up-and-comers need to demonstrate their ability to command a Zoom as well as a room and are well advised to monitor their body language as well as proactively use it.</p>
<p class="indent">Appearance (how you look) is still a distant third, comprising a mere 5 percent of the EP equation. The data reveal that this <span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_180" title="180"/>bucket has changed a great deal over the last ten years, but despite large shifts, there is significant continuity. For example, in 2022 “polish” and “fit/vigorous” remain front and center of the top-picks list.</p>
<p class="indent">A final word on a trait that has dropped precipitously. Forcefulness, which used to be the number 3 pick in the communication bucket, has fallen to number 19. Nowadays, the idea that an accomplished, ambitious up-and-comer needs to come over as a tough guy, someone who bites bullets, shows teeth, and kicks tires, doesn’t go over well. Those attributes are now seen as sexist and divisive.</p>
<p class="indent">Let’s dig down into the three buckets of EP—gravitas, communication, and appearance—and explore how EP has stayed the same and how it has moved around and shifted.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>