<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Executive Presence 2.0</title>
<link href="../styles/9780063270565_template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:9673925c-8907-4289-b2ab-15cb30d78281" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section>
<h2 class="fmh" id="int"><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_1" title="1"/><a href="9780063270565_Contents.xhtml#rint">Introduction</a></h2>
<p class="noindent">My first run-in with executive presence (EP) occurred when I was seventeen. I was in the second year of the sixth form at my grammar school in the UK and applying for the ultimate “reach” schools—Oxford and Cambridge. I’d gotten a certain distance, having passed the rigorous entrance examinations, but was now facing a round of interviews. I anticipated a rough time. I knew enough about the world to understand that I came from the “wrong” background (Welsh, working-class), and my knees knocked and I broke out in a cold sweat at the mere thought of facing the scrutiny of Oxbridge dons. I feared they would size me up and decide I did not have “it,” which of course they had in spades.</p>
<p class="indent">Seeing my distress and eager to be helpful, my mum volunteered to “dress” me for my first interview at St. Anne’s College, Oxford. She’d read a ton of Nancy Mitford novels and thought she knew what kind of clothes the “upper crust” wore. I didn’t push back—I knew I was clueless. I’d grown up in a backwater coal mining community and had few clothes and no social graces. I was eager for help. Having battled huge odds to pass the entrance tests, I knew that this interview was the only thing standing between me and a coveted place at one of the most distinguished universities in Europe. And I had a good shot—half of those interviewed got a place. I just had to figure out how to look the part of someone who moved in the right circles.</p>
<p class="indent"><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_2" title="2"/>So early one December morning we hit the winter clearance sales—rising at the crack of dawn so that we would be at the head of the herd storming C&amp;A (a department store in Cardiff, Wales). And did we score! In the sales racks of the ladies’ suits department my mum found exactly what she was looking for: a nubby tweed suit with a fox collar. And I don’t mean the collar was made out of fox fur. I mean the collar was a fox—or most of a fox. The tail was a big feature (you were supposed to fling it around your neck as extra protection against the winter cold), and then there were two beady eyes and two sets of claws.</p>
<p class="indent">As might be expected, my Oxford interview was a disaster. The admissions committee was gobsmacked. I literally took their breath away. They simply did not know what to make of a seventeen-year-old who wore a fox and seemed to be trying to look like the Queen Mother—especially since this particular seventeen-year-old spoke English with a thick working-class Welsh accent (more on that in <a href="9780063270565_Chapter_3.xhtml">chapter 3</a>). I did not get in . . . and was devastated. But it was hard to blame my mum. She had tried so hard.</p>
<p class="indent">To my great relief I got a second shot at my dream. A month later I learned that I’d also passed the Cambridge entrance examinations (in those days the two top universities in the UK crafted their own rigorous tests). I was invited to go for an interview. I told my mother that she was off the case—this time I was dressing myself. Remembering “the look” of the other female candidates at Oxford, I borrowed a pleated skirt and a simple sweater from a friend and ironed my unruly hair so it fell in the shining sheets that seemed to be in vogue. Despite an acute attack of nerves, I did well enough in the interview. Three weeks later I learned that I had won a place. I was over the moon. I knew that a Cambridge education would transform my life prospects.</p>
<p class="indent">Looking back, I realize that I didn’t need to do brilliantly in those interviews. I merely needed not to stick out like a sore thumb. <span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_3" title="3"/>The fact is, back then, Oxford and Cambridge universities were under pressure from the British government to diversify and had committed to increasing the number of female and working-class individuals in the student body. Unbeknownst to me, I was a prime candidate, and those admissions committees were leaning over backward to give me a place. But the fox collar <i>and</i> the Welsh accent were just too much for class-conscious Oxbridge dons. I just stuck in their craw. Losing the fox was a winning idea.</p>
<p class="indent">Given the travails of Oxbridge entrance, you would have thought I’d learned a thing or two about the power of appearance. Perhaps I did, but it was hard to hang on to. Time and time again I made costly mistakes.</p>
<p class="indent">Take my hippie professor phase. My first job was in academia, and when I joined the Barnard College faculty as assistant professor of economics, I assumed that since I was working on a college campus, and not on Wall Street, it was okay to be young and fun. So I wore my hair waist-long and I specialized in flowing ethnic skirts—my favorite was hand-stitched and had a rather loud patchwork quilt pattern. I failed to understand that looking as though I was on my way to Woodstock got in the way of establishing authority on the job. I was facing a tough sell even without the hippie skirts. I was twenty-seven when I started this job, and it was a stretch to convince anyone I was a professor and not just another student. The last thing I needed was to compound the challenges I faced as the youngest faculty member—and one of the few females in the economics department. Looking back, I now understand that my early struggles to command attention and respect in lecture halls and faculty meetings did not center on content or delivery (I was a clear, crisp speaker and knew my material cold), but rather on the way I presented myself.</p>
<p class="indent">Time passed and after some painful experimentation, I eventually fixed the way I looked, evolving a signature style that combined <span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_4" title="4"/>elegance and professionalism with a “safe” amount of idiosyncratic flair (more on this in <a href="9780063270565_Chapter_4.xhtml">chapter 4</a>). But I wasn’t out of the woods on the EP front. Twenty years later I hit another—and much more serious—brand problem. It turns out that EP is a fragile thing: It needs to be nurtured, invested in, and curated. I failed to do this and fell flat on my face—necessitating an EP makeover.</p>
<p class="indent">Here is what happened.</p>
<p class="indent">In 2002, Tina Brown (who, at that point, headed up Talk Miramax Books) published my book <i>Creating a Life.</i> It launched on April 7. The weekend before, <i>Time</i> magazine ran a cover story on the book and the CBS News show <i>60 Minutes</i> aired a feature. This coverage triggered a maelstrom of media attention. The <i>New York Times</i> and <i>BusinessWeek</i> did feature pieces on the book; so did <i>People</i> and <i>Parade</i> magazines. I appeared on the <i>Today</i> show as well as on <i>Oprah</i> and <i>The View</i>. The coup de grâce: In late April I was lampooned on <i>Saturday Night Live</i>, confirming the fact that my book had briefly entered the zeitgeist.</p>
<p class="indent">Alas, the good news did not last.</p>
<p class="indent">On May 20 I picked up the <i>New York Times</i> and glimpsed on the front page a noisy headline that blared “The Talk of the Book World Still Can’t Sell.” Halfway through the first sentence my blood ran cold—the subject of the article was <i>my</i> book. In gleeful tones the reporter, Warren St. John (a young, male, hotshot business writer), walked the reader through how <i>Creating a Life</i> was shaping up to be a total bust on the sales front. He found the explanation all too simple: “Women are just not interested in shelling out $22 for a load of depressing news about their biological clock,” he opined smugly and snarkily. I was stunned. These dismissive words did not describe the book I had written.</p>
<p class="indent">I didn’t even need to finish the article to understand the damage it would do—which was swift and devastating. In a matter of weeks, <i>Creating a Life</i> was DOA—and, figuratively speaking, so <span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_5" title="5"/>was I. I went from being a much-feted author to a pariah, since one of the results of being trashed on the front page of the <i>Times</i> is that everyone knows. It’s like being stripped in public. My entire circle of friends and colleagues read this piece. In fact, one reason I felt so bad was that I knew that many more people would read the alpha-male spin of Warren St. John on page A1 of the <i>Times</i> than would ever read <i>Creating a Life</i>. That article effectively buried what was my most deeply felt and pain-filled book.</p>
<p class="indent">I tried to rebound, of course. Over that summer I threw myself into a new book project. In early September I met with Molly Friedrich, my longtime literary agent, to pitch my new idea. “It’s something more fine-grained, more academic,” I offered. Looking me in the eye, Molly let me have it. “Sylvia,” she said, “there’s not going to be a next book. Given your recent track record, you’re not going to get a decent publisher or a decent advance. You need to get a day job.”</p>
<p class="indent">I was stunned. How had this happened? How could my livelihood be in jeopardy and my reputation—carefully built over years—be in tatters? The explanation dawned painfully and slowly: I had constructed, but hadn’t protected, my personal brand. I’d invested in it—establishing myself in both academia and public policy circles as an intellectual heavyweight with the chops to take on the really thorny questions of our time—but I hadn’t proactively looked after it. I might have realized, when the <i>Time</i> story broke, that I was seriously out of my depth. Although I’d written high-profile books before (<i>When the Bough Breaks</i> had received a Robert F. Kennedy Book Award), it didn’t occur to me to arm myself with a PR professional, someone who could craft a media campaign that would amplify, rather than distort, my message. Instead I reveled in the immediate impact of <i>Creating a Life</i> and had plunged in with naïve delight, doing every radio show and print interview that came my way. Quite quickly the content of the book <span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_6" title="6"/>was dumbed down, making me vulnerable to attack. It’s one thing to be thoughtfully critiqued by the <i>New York Review of Books</i>, and quite another to be bent out of shape by the <i>National Enquirer</i>.</p>
<p class="indent">So, having squandered my hard-won gravitas, I had little choice but to start over, building my credibility and authority brick by heavy brick. As a woman north of fifty, I did not have time on my side. But decades spent doing good work in both academia and the public sector had given me a network and at least a few sponsors that I could turn to for a fresh start. That fall I applied for, and got, two adjunct teaching positions—one at Columbia and one at Princeton. I poured immense energy into these gigs and by the spring was able to convert the Columbia position into a continuing part-time job—as director of the Gender and Policy Program at the School of International and Public Affairs. With my brand refurbished, I had fresh currency in the very circles I wanted to reengage with: professional women and their employers. Because, of course, I hadn’t changed my focus: I still wanted to make a difference, to transform the lives and career prospects of women and other underrepresented groups. This time around I decided to focus on changing the face of leadership, to help create the conditions that empower many more women, people of color, and LGBTQ+ employees and others to sit at decision-making tables. In 2004 I founded a think tank (the Center for Talent Innovation, now called Coqual) that has become an influential research organization globally and done much to accelerate the progress of women and other previously excluded groups around the world. In driving this tranche of work I’ve written four books and twenty-seven articles—for Harvard Business Review Press. I’ve learned my lesson. Nowadays I proactively curate where I publish and avoid the popular media. I want to be seen as an intellectual heavyweight, not as tabloid fodder.</p>
<p class="indent">My bumpy ride on the EP journey has contributed special energy<span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_7" title="7"/> as well as important perspectives to this book. To flag two of the more significant:</p>
<p class="indent">Appearance challenges are not trivial, but they do tend to be easily fixed and pale in comparison to other, more profound EP problems. Remember that fox collar? Although it blew my chances at St. Anne’s College, I was able to quickly ditch that look and improve my chances when I got a second shot.</p>
<p class="indent">Reputational glitches are much more serious—and immensely difficult to recover from. Resurrecting my brand after the disastrous launch of <i>Creating a Life</i> took about six years. I didn’t breathe easy until my body of new work had spawned a fifth <i>Harvard Business Review</i> article. At that point I knew I had reestablished my gravitas.</p>
<p class="indent">The irony, of course, is that this entire discussion centers on image, not substance. Whether we’re talking about appearance or gravitas, we’re focusing on what we’re signaling to the world rather than what we’re really accomplishing. What kind of outfit I wore to my Oxford interview had no bearing on my intelligence or my preparedness for an Oxford education. Seen from that vantage point, it should not have mattered. But it did. Enormously. Similarly, the fact that <i>Creating a Life</i> was dragged into the gutter by the tabloid press (and talk radio) had no bearing on the intrinsic value of the book. After all, it made it onto the <i>BusinessWeek</i> list of the ten most important books of 2002 and I still meet women whose lives were transformed by its content. But messaging matters. Enormously. The wrong message and the wrong messenger can destroy careers, whatever the substantive reality.</p>
<p class="indent">So read this book. Understanding EP and cracking its code will do wonders for your ability to achieve success and do something wonderful with your life.<span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_8" title="8"/></p>
</section>
</body>
</html>