<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Executive Presence 2.0</title>
<link href="../styles/9780063270565_template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:9673925c-8907-4289-b2ab-15cb30d78281" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section>
<h2 class="fmh-1" id="pra"><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_a" title="a"/><a href="9780063270565_Contents.xhtml#rpra">Praise for <i>Executive Presence</i></a></h2>
<p class="center"><b>THE MISSING LINK BETWEEN MERIT AND SUCCESS</b></p>
<p class="noindentt-1">“With clarity and honesty, Sylvia Ann Hewlett shines a light on a central truth: if we fail to master the ‘intangibles’ of leadership we’re in danger of missing the mark. Sylvia’s impeccable research and guidance prepares us to crack the Executive Presence code.”</p>
<p class="praise">—Ann Beynon, commissioner, UK Equality and Human Rights Commission; director for Wales, BT</p>
<p class="noindent">“In today’s business world, authenticity is the new currency of leadership. In Sylvia Ann Hewlett’s valuable book, she demonstrates how you can crack the code of Executive Presence by embracing what differentiates you from the pack.”</p>
<p class="praise">—Mark T. Bertolini, chairman, CEO, and president of Aetna</p>
<p class="noindent">“Sylvia Ann Hewlett’s book is essential reading for anyone striving to minimize the gap between how others perceive you and how you want to be seen. It arms you with the skills to create, curate, and manage your personal brand and convince people they are in the presence of someone going places.”</p>
<p class="praise">—Joanna Coles, editor in chief of <i>Cosmopolitan</i></p>
<p class="noindent">“Clear and compassionate, Hewlett explains what it means to have Executive Presence and why it’s essential for anyone who wishes to lead in today’s uncertain and fast-paced work environment. With memorable stories and examples—including the author’s firsthand experiences of getting it wrong as a young woman just starting her career—<i>Executive Presence</i> is both practical and compelling.”</p>
<p class="praise">—Amy C. Edmondson, Novartis Professor of Leadership and Management, Harvard Business School</p>
<p class="noindent">“This is a powerful and urgent book for young professionals climbing the ladder. Credentials alone will not get you the next big opportunity. You also need Executive Presence—the ability to signal confidence and credibility. In this immensely readable study, replete with vivid stories as well as hard data, Sylvia Ann Hewlett tells us how to ace EP.”</p>
<p class="praise">—Sallie Krawcheck, CEO and cofounder of Ellevest and former head of Bank of America’s Global Wealth and Investment Management division</p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_b" title="b"/>“Sylvia Ann Hewlett has taken some of the mystery out of the claim that ‘you just don’t have what it takes’ in this groundbreaking book on Executive Presence. Combining story after story with well-grounded research, this book provides a simple guide that will help you crack the code to career success.”</p>
<p class="praise">—Katherine W. Phillips, Paul Calello Professor of Leadership and Ethics, Columbia Business School</p>
<p class="noindent">“Whether you are an aspiring corporate star or a seasoned veteran, Sylvia Ann Hewlett’s <i>Executive Presence</i> will captivate you—pithily written, laden with stories, and grounded in the latest research. You will find a lesson that you can’t wait to adopt on every page. It is the modern handbook on the art of visible leadership for which many of us have been waiting.”</p>
<p class="praise">—Sir Trevor Phillips, chair of the Equality and Human Rights Commission and producer of the BBC series <i>Windrush</i></p>
<p class="noindent">“In <i>Executive Presence</i>, Sylvia Ann Hewlett forges into that murky gray zone between how women look and how they perform. With wit and aplomb, Hewlett convincingly shows why presence matters and how women (and men) can achieve it without compromising their values or their careers. Her advice is well-researched, heartfelt, and always on the mark.”</p>
<p class="praise">—Debora Spar, senior associate dean of Harvard Business School Online and former president of Barnard College</p>
<p class="noindent">“Sylvia Ann Hewlett is again leading the way by examining a critical component of business success, Executive Presence. She is a master at making a vague topic clear. She demystifies the meaning of Executive Presence and provides tangible, practical advice that readers can easily use to lift their game.”</p>
<p class="praise">—Anré Williams, president of Global Merchant Services American Express</p>
<p class="noindent">“In this significant book, Sylvia Ann Hewlett challenges the conventional wisdom that Executive Presence is an innate quality that can barely be defined, much less developed. Anyone seeking to close the gap between their merit and their success could benefit from her practical, engaging, and human advice.”</p>
<p class="praise">—Kenji Yoshino, Chief Justice Earl Warren Professor of Constitutional Law, NYU School of Law<span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_i" title="i"/></p>
</section>
</body>
</html>