<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Executive Presence 2.0</title>
<link href="../styles/9780063270565_template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:9673925c-8907-4289-b2ab-15cb30d78281" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section>
<h2 class="fmh" id="cop"><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_iv" title="iv"/><a href="9780063270565_Contents.xhtml#rcop">Copyright</a></h2>
<p class="copyb"><span class="make_smallcaps">EXECUTIVE PRESENCE 2.0</span>. Copyright © 2023 by Sylvia Ann Hewlett. All rights reserved under International and Pan-American Copyright Conventions. By payment of the required fees, you have been granted the nonexclusive, nontransferable right to access and read the text of this e-book on-screen. No part of this text may be reproduced, transmitted, downloaded, decompiled, reverse-engineered, or stored in or introduced into any information storage and retrieval system, in any form or by any means, whether electronic or mechanical, now known or hereafter invented, without the express written permission of HarperCollins e-books.</p>
<p class="copyb">Originally published as <i>Executive Presence</i> in 2014 by Harper Business, an imprint of HarperCollins Publishers.</p>

<p class="copyb"><span class="make_smallcaps">REVISED AND UPDATED EDITION PUBLISHED 2023</span></p>
<p class="copyb"><i>Cover design by Jason Gabbert</i></p>

<p class="copyb">Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data</p>
<p class="copyh">Names: Hewlett, Sylvia Ann, 1946- author.</p>
<p class="copyh">Title: Executive presence 2.0 : leadership in an age of inclusion / Sylvia Ann Hewlett.</p>
<p class="copyh">Description: Second edition. | New York, NY : Harper Business, 2023. | Revised edition of the author’s Executive presence, [2014] | Includes bibliographical references and index.</p>
<p class="copyh">Identifiers: LCCN 2023021880 (print) | LCCN 2023021881 (ebook) | ISBN 9780063270558 (hardcover) | ISBN 9780063270565 (epub)</p>
<p class="copyh">Subjects: LCSH: Executive ability—Psychological aspects. | Leadership—Psychological aspects. | Self-presentation. | Influence (Psychology) | Interpersonal relations.</p>
<p class="copyh">Classification: LCC HD38.2 .H49 2023 (print) | LCC HD38.2 (ebook) | DDC 658.4/09—dc23/eng/20230720</p>
<p class="copyh">LC record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2023021880</p>
<p class="copyhb">LC ebook record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2023021881</p>
<p class="copy">Digital Edition NOVEMBER 2023 ISBN: 978-0-06-327056-5</p>
<p class="copy">Version 09212023</p>
<p class="copy">Print ISBN: 978-0-06-327055-8</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>