<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Executive Presence 2.0</title>
<link href="../styles/9780063270565_template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:9673925c-8907-4289-b2ab-15cb30d78281" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section>
<h2 class="fmh" id="app"><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_257" title="257"/><a href="9780063270565_Contents.xhtml#rapp">Appendix A: Executive Presence Self-Diagnostic</a></h2>
<p class="noindent">Is failure to crack the EP code holding you back from achieving your full potential? Take this assessment and find out.</p>
<p class="noindentt">1. You’re making a presentation to twenty senior executives in your organization. Just before stepping into the meeting venue you receive a phone call from your doctor with some disturbing news, which leaves you distressed and distracted. How do you handle this when you are expected to present immediately? Do you . . .</p>
<ol class="a">
<li>Delay the meeting by ten or more minutes while you pull yourself together</li>
<li>Take several deep breaths, walk into the meeting, and present with as much composure as possible</li>
<li>Cancel the meeting because you feel you’re not in a fit state to handle it</li>
</ol>
<p class="noindentt">2. You are abroad, conducting a workshop in your area of expertise. Most of the participants are engaging and interactive, as they have substantial experience and knowledge of this subject matter. This adds to the productivity of the workshop. However, there are one or two participants who know very little and who are not quite grasping some of the concepts you are introducing. <span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_258" title="258"/>As a result, they interrupt you often by asking questions and/or requesting that you repeat yourself. Do you . . .</p>
<ol class="a">
<li>Ignore their questions, hoping they will eventually stop interrupting and catch up with the rest of the group</li>
<li>Become irritated and display a “what do you want now” attitude</li>
<li>Head off future disruptions by calling a short break so that you can talk to the participants who do not seem to be catching on and offer to meet with them after the formal presentation for a fifteen-minute coaching session</li>
</ol>
<p class="noindentt">3. You’ve been called into a strategy meeting by your CEO, who wants input from his senior team on recent hits to the bottom line. Some key clients have walked out the door. You know (as do others) that one of the main reasons this is happening is that the CEO has old-fashioned ideas and/or concepts, and does not want to move with the times. He chooses you out of the group and asks for your thoughts. What do you do?</p>
<ol class="a">
<li>Smile pleasantly and offer reassurance to the CEO.</li>
<li>Stand up and in a confident tone speak “truth to power,” telling the CEO that the organization needs to move to next-gen products/services and making sure to offer some concrete suggestions.</li>
<li>Get yourself off the hook by asking the CEO to call on a more senior person who is better in touch with the organization’s business strategy.</li>
</ol>
<p class="noindentt">4. You are a director in a consulting firm and have twelve direct reports. Your team is the top-performing group at the company largely due to two outstanding individuals: a white male and a Black woman, who also has a slight speech impediment. The senior<span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_259" title="259"/> partners at the firm want to promote one of these “stars” and hand over the decision to you. Kind of. “Offline” they express a preference for the Caucasian male, making the case that his communication skills are superior to the Black woman and he’s a better “fit” in the culture. What decision do you make?</p>
<ol class="a">
<li>You give the promotion to the Black woman despite her speech impairment because she is the better performer; the previous year she’d brought in twice the new business as the Caucasian male.</li>
<li>You promote the Caucasian male because in the end you agree with the senior partners: fit and eloquence are more important than acing the numbers.</li>
<li>You ask the partners to make the decision because they are in a better position than you are to gauge the long-run needs of the company.</li>
</ol>
<p class="noindentt">5. You are attending a business conference that has featured an unusual number of speakers—most of them uninspired if not outright boring. It is late in the afternoon and you’re eager to go home when unexpectedly you’re asked to make the wrap-up remarks. How do you deal with this EP challenge?</p>
<ol class="a">
<li>You reluctantly agree to do your best—making sure to tell the audience that you’re a fill-in and not prepared. Then you make some desultory comments.</li>
<li>You decide to put comfort first and request a chair be put on the stage. You know yourself well enough to know that you’ll have a better shot at being bright, scintillating, and responsive to questions from the audience if you’re not on your feet.</li>
<li>You drink a glass of water and walk on with a welcoming smile. You make your closing remarks short and sweet <span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_260" title="260"/>and focus on making eye contact with the weary professionals still in the room.</li>
</ol>
<p class="noindentt">6. As team leader, you must meet with your team and let them know that despite their hard drive to boost sales in the second half of the quarter, expansion didn’t happen—largely due to headwinds from the outside—and the team is being disbanded, with some individuals being let go and others distributed to other divisions. How do you handle the meeting where you communicate the bad news?</p>
<ol class="a">
<li>You are truthful and direct. Without sugarcoating the situation, you emphasize that this is no one’s fault; rather this is a structural thing. You also offer to use your personal network to help those newly out of work to find a next job.</li>
<li>You explain that this is a decision made by senior management and you don’t have line of sight on why the team’s being broken up. You direct your team to go to HR with any questions.</li>
<li>You use this opportunity to blame the big bosses at the company and shame the poor performers on the team. This will deflect attention from yourself.</li>
</ol>
<p class="noindentt">7. You are at a dinner reception honoring the leader of your organization. You are seated at a table with executives from other companies whom you do not know. They’re focused on talking with one another. Which of the below is a good way to open a conversation that could lead to a substantive connection?</p>
<ol class="a">
<li>Pick the person sitting next to you or across from you. Turn to that person with a smile and make a lighthearted comment about the food, the venue, or the honoree. This <span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_261" title="261"/>breaks the ice and initiates an interchange and eventually some kind of discussion.</li>
<li>Introduce yourself to the most important people at the table, making sure to mention two or three of your accomplishments.</li>
<li>Sit quietly and wait for someone to engage you in conversation. If you get bored, you can always scroll on your phone.</li>
</ol>
<p class="noindentt">8. You have a great track record at the company and have been promoted several times. You’re now being considered for a VP slot and have been invited to speak to members of the C-suite about your goals and visions. You find this a terrifying prospect as you’re shy and soft-spoken and have a tendency to quiver with nerves when put in the spotlight.</p>
<ol class="a">
<li>Calm your fears by telling yourself that this presentation doesn’t matter too much, that the decision of these leaders will hinge on what you’ve delivered over the years, not your skills as a public speaker.</li>
<li>Prepare like crazy and practice in front of a mirror. If you beat your presentation into your brain, muscle memory will take over and “nerves” won’t matter.</li>
<li>Ask if you can meet with each C-suite executive individually. You know you’re much more impressive one-on-one.</li>
</ol>
<p class="noindentt">9. You’re excited because you’ve been invited to the company’s golf retreat this year, despite being a golf “beginner” with a handicap of 130. You go shopping for a new golf outfit and end up buying two. Your enthusiasm is dampened a little when you arrive at the retreat and walk into a wall of male colleagues. Almost all of <span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_262" title="262"/>the attendees at this event are men; most of them scratch golfers. How do you comport yourself to appear leaderly? How do you avoid humiliation?</p>
<ol class="a">
<li>Play the “good sport” card by tagging along in a foursome and taking whatever knocks come your way. As long as you pick up your ball when lagging behind and don’t slow down the pace of play, no one will find fault with you. And the advantage of getting out there and playing is that you’ll really get to know some of the male leaders. Golf is a long-winded game. Eighteen holes takes about five hours.</li>
<li>Wear the outfits—all look good on you—but ditch the actual golf. As long as you display know-how and enthusiasm for “all things golf” over drinks and dinner, you’ll be one of the boys, strengthen your connection to these male leaders, and have a new network going forward.</li>
<li>Cut your losses. Realize that you won’t cut the mustard with this crowd and therefore can’t make this golf retreat work for you. Retreating to your room with a good book is the way to go.</li>
</ol>
<p class="noindentt">10. Which of these statements accurately describes the elements of executive presence?</p>
<ol class="a">
<li>To be seen as someone who is “leadership material” and has “what it takes,” you need to ace all six top traits in the gravitas, communication, and appearance buckets.</li>
<li>Appearance is superficial nonsense that only superficial folks pay attention to.</li>
<li>How we behave, how we talk, and how we look determine how we are seen in this world and what we can accomplish for ourselves, for others, and for the work we are privileged to do.</li>
</ol>
<p class="noindentt"><span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_263" title="263"/>Total Your Score: 1. a-2, b-3, c-1; 2. a-2, b-1, c-3; 3. a-2, b-3, c-1; 4. a-3, b-2, c-1; 5. a-1, b-2, c-3; 6. a-3, b-2, c-1; 7. a-3, b-1, c-2; 8. a-2, b-3, c-1; 9. a-1, b-3, c-2; 10. a-1, b-2, c-3</p>
<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width:30%"/>
<col style="width:70%"/>
</colgroup>
<tr>
<td><b>Your score</b></td>
<td><b>What it means</b></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Less than 23</td>
<td>Poor to fair. But don’t worry, EP can be learned! Utilize mentors, sponsors, role models, and pointers in this book to burnish how you act, how you speak, and how you talk.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>24–26</td>
<td>Good. You’re on the right track! To bolster your EP, use coaches and other external resources to get a more solid grasp of all three pillars (gravitas, communication, and appearance).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>27–30</td>
<td>Excellent. You’ve nailed EP! You have what it takes to convert your abilities into impact, influence, agency, and a path to a top job.</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p class="noindentt">For a more in-depth diagnostic of your or your colleagues’ executive presence, please visit hewlettconsultingpartners.com.<span class="right_1" epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_264" title="264"/></p>
</section>
</body>
</html>