<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en" lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head><title>The MCP Standard: A Developer's Guide to Building Universal AI Tools with the Model Context Protocol</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/springer_epub.css"/></head><body><div id="book-content"><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section aria-labelledby="chaptertitle" class="ChapterInPart" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter"><div class="ChapterContextInformation"><div class="ContextInformation" id="b979-8-8688-2364-0_8"><div class="ChapterCopyright">© The Author(s), under exclusive license to APress Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature 2026</div><span class="ContextInformationAuthorEditorNames">S. Sekar</span><span class="ContextInformationBookTitles"><span class="BookTitle">The MCP Standard</span></span><span class="ChapterDOI"><a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/979-8-8688-2364-0_8">https://doi.org/10.1007/979-8-8688-2364-0_8</a></span></div></div><!--Begin Abstract--><div class="MainTitleSection"><h1 class="ChapterTitle" id="chaptertitle" lang="en">8. For the AI Application Developer: Building an MCP Client</h1></div><div class="AuthorGroup"><div class="AuthorNames"><span class="Author"><span class="AuthorName">Srinivasan Sekar</span><sup><a href="#Aff2">1</a> <span class="ContactIcon"> </span></sup></span></div><div class="Affiliations"><div class="Affiliation" id="Aff2"><span class="AffiliationNumber">(1)</span><div class="AffiliationText">Bengaluru, Karnataka, India</div></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></div></div><!--End Abstract--><div class="Fulltext"><p class="Para" id="Par2"><span aria-label="115" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB115" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>In the previous chapter, we forged a powerful and dynamic MCP server, a workshop filled with specialized tools capable of notifying clients of changes and even requesting input from them. Now, we shift our focus to building its counterpart: a sophisticated client application capable of wielding those tools with intelligence and precision and gracefully handling the server’s own interactive requests.</p><p class="Para" id="Par3">This chapter moves beyond simple abstractions. We will construct a client that takes full, manual control of the agentic loop. Instead of relying on an SDK to automatically handle tool calls, our client will intercept the LLM’s requests, explicitly call the <span id="ITerm1">MCP server</span>, process the results, and manage a multi-turn conversation. This approach, while more complex, is representative of real-world applications that require custom logic, robust error handling, and dynamic state management.</p><div class="Para" id="Par4">We will build a command-line chatbot using <span id="ITerm2">Google’s Gemini</span> that can<div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par5">Connect to our server over the network using Streamable HTTP.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par6">Handle server-sent notifications for dynamic tool updates.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par7"><span aria-label="116" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB116" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>Respond to server-initiated requests for Roots, Sampling, and Elicitation.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par8">Manually orchestrate a multistep tool-calling loop.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par9">Implement custom fallback logic when a requested tool is not available.</p></li></ul></div></div><section aria-labelledby="Sec1Heading" class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec1"><h2 class="Heading" id="Sec1Heading">Step 1: Project Scaffolding and Environment Setup</h2><div class="Para" id="Par10">Every professional application starts with a clean and well-structured environment. We will create our client <span id="ITerm3">project</span> from scratch to ensure it is self-contained.<div class="OrderedList"><ol><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">1.</div><div class="ItemContent"><div class="Para" id="Par11"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Create a Project Directory:</b> In a separate location from your server project, open your terminal and create a new folder.<div class="ProgramCode" id="PC1"><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">mkdir mcp-gemini-client</div><div class="FixedLine">cd mcp-gemini-client</div></div></div></div></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">2.</div><div class="ItemContent"><div class="Para" id="Par12"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Create a Node.js Project:</b><div class="ProgramCode" id="PC2"><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">npm init -y</div></div></div></div></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">3.</div><div class="ItemContent"><div class="Para" id="Par13"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Install Dependencies</b>: Our client requires the Google AI SDK, the MCP Client SDK, and the dotenv utility for managing our API key.<div class="ProgramCode" id="PC3"><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">npm install @google/genai @modelcontextprotocol/sdk dotenv</div></div></div></div></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">4.</div><div class="ItemContent"><div class="Para" id="Par14"><span aria-label="117" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB117" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Install Development Dependencies</b>: For a professional <span id="ITerm4">TypeScript workflow</span><span id="ITerm5"></span>, we need TypeScript itself, ts-node for execution, and the necessary type definitions.<div class="ProgramCode" id="PC4"><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">npm install --save-dev typescript ts-node @types/node</div></div></div></div></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">5.</div><div class="ItemContent"><div class="Para" id="Par15"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Initialize the TypeScript Configuration</b>:<div class="ProgramCode" id="PC5"><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">npx tsc --init</div></div></div></div><p class="Para" id="Par16">Open the generated <span id="ITerm6"><span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">tsconfig.json</span></span><span id="ITerm7"></span> and ensure it is configured for a modern Node.js project to enable features like top-level <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">await</span>.</p><div class="Para" id="Par17">File: <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">tsconfig.json</span><div class="ProgramCode" id="PC6"><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">{</div><div class="FixedLine">  "compilerOptions": {</div><div class="FixedLine">    "target": "ES2022",</div><div class="FixedLine">    "module": "NodeNext",</div><div class="FixedLine">    "moduleResolution": "NodeNext",</div><div class="FixedLine">    "strict": true,</div><div class="FixedLine">    "esModuleInterop": true,</div><div class="FixedLine">    "forceConsistentCasingInFileNames": true,</div><div class="FixedLine">    "skipLibCheck": true</div><div class="FixedLine">  },</div><div class="FixedLine">  "ts-node": {</div><div class="FixedLine">    "esm": true</div><div class="FixedLine">  }</div><div class="FixedLine">}</div></div></div></div></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">6.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par18"><span aria-label="118" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB118" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Set Up Environment Variables</b>: Our <span id="ITerm8">application</span> will need an API key for the Gemini API. The best practice is to manage this using an environment variable. Create a file named .env in your project root:</p><div class="Para" id="Par19">File: <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">.env</span><div class="ProgramCode" id="PC7"><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">GEMINI_API_KEY="YOUR_API_KEY_HERE"</div></div></div></div><div class="Para" id="Par20">To load this variable into our application, we’ll install the dotenv <span id="ITerm9">package</span>:<div class="ProgramCode" id="PC8"><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">npm install dotenv</div></div></div></div><p class="Para" id="Par21">*Remember to add “.env” to your “.gitignore” file to avoid committing secrets.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">7.</div><div class="ItemContent"><div class="Para" id="Par22"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Create a Source Directory</b>: As defined in our <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">tsconfig.json</span>, all our source code will reside in the <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">src</span> folder.<div class="ProgramCode" id="PC9"><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">mkdir src</div></div></div></div><div class="Para" id="Par23">Add <span id="ITerm10"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">npm Start Script</b></span>: For convenience, add a start script to your <span id="ITerm11">package.json</span><span id="ITerm12"></span>:<div class="ProgramCode" id="PC10"><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">{</div><div class="FixedLine">  "name": "mcp-gemini-client",</div><div class="FixedLine">  "version": "1.0.0",</div><div class="FixedLine">  "type": "module",</div><div class="FixedLine">  "scripts": {</div><div class="FixedLine">    "start": "node --import 'data:text/javascript,import { register } from \"node:module\"; import { pathToFileURL } from \"node:url\"; register(\"ts-node/esm\", pathToFileURL(\"./\"));' src/client.ts"</div><div class="FixedLine">  },</div><div class="FixedLine">  "dependencies": {</div><div class="FixedLine">    "@google/genai": "^1.9.0",</div><div class="FixedLine">    "@modelcontextprotocol/sdk": "^1.15.1",</div><div class="FixedLine">    "dotenv": "^17.2.0",</div><div class="FixedLine">    "zod": "^3.25.76"</div><div class="FixedLine">  },</div><div class="FixedLine">  "devDependencies": {</div><div class="FixedLine">    "@types/node": "^24.0.11",</div><div class="FixedLine">    "ts-node": "^10.9.2",</div><div class="FixedLine">    "typescript": "^5.8.3"</div><div class="FixedLine">  }<span id="ITerm13"></span></div><div class="FixedLine">}</div></div></div></div></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li></ol></div></div></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec2Heading" class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec2"><h2 class="Heading" id="Sec2Heading">Step 2: Defining Schemas and Initializing the Core Components</h2><p class="Para" id="Par24"><span aria-label="119" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB119" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>We begin by setting up the MCP <span id="ITerm14">client</span>, the Gemini client, and the chat session. This involves not just creating instances but also defining the bidirectional contract between our client and the server.</p><div class="Para" id="Par25">File: <span id="ITerm15"><span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">src/client.ts</span></span><div class="ProgramCode" id="PC11"><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">import 'dotenv/config';</div><div class="FixedLine">import { Client } from '@modelcontextprotocol/sdk/client/index.js';</div><div class="FixedLine">import { StreamableHTTPClientTransport } from '@modelcontextprotocol/sdk/client/streamableHttp.js';</div><div class="FixedLine">import { z } from 'zod';</div><div class="FixedLine">import * as readline from 'node:readline/promises';</div><div class="FixedLine">import { stdin as input, stdout as output } from 'node:process';</div><div class="FixedLine">import { CallToolResultSchema } from '@modelcontextprotocol/sdk/types.js';</div><div class="FixedLine">import { GoogleGenAI, mcpToTool, Chat, Part } from '@google/genai';</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">// Define Zod schemas for incoming notifications and requests for type safety</div><div class="FixedLine">const ListChangedNotificationSchema = z.object({</div><div class="FixedLine">  method: z.literal('notifications/tools/list_changed'),</div><div class="FixedLine">  params: z.object({}).passthrough().optional(),</div><div class="FixedLine">});</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">const ResourceUpdatedNotificationSchema = z.object({</div><div class="FixedLine">  method: z.literal('notifications/resources/updated'),</div><div class="FixedLine">  params: z.object({<span id="ITerm16"></span></div><div class="FixedLine">    uri: z.string(),</div><div class="FixedLine">    title: z.string().optional(),</div><div class="FixedLine">  }),</div><div class="FixedLine">});<span id="ITerm17"></span></div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">const ResourceListChangedNotificationSchema = z.object({</div><div class="FixedLine">  method: z.literal('notifications/resources/list_changed'),</div><div class="FixedLine">  params: z.object({}).passthrough().optional(),</div><div class="FixedLine">});</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">const SampleRequestSchema = z.object({</div><div class="FixedLine">  method: z.literal('sampling/createMessage'),</div><div class="FixedLine">  params: z.object({</div><div class="FixedLine">    messages: z.array(</div><div class="FixedLine">      z.object({</div><div class="FixedLine">        role: z.string(),</div><div class="FixedLine">        content: z.object({</div><div class="FixedLine">          type: z.literal('text'),</div><div class="FixedLine">          text: z.string(),</div><div class="FixedLine">        }),</div><div class="FixedLine">      })</div><div class="FixedLine">    ),<span id="ITerm18"></span></div><div class="FixedLine">  }),</div><div class="FixedLine">});</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">const ElicitInputRequestSchema = z.object({</div><div class="FixedLine">  method: z.literal('elicitation/create'),</div><div class="FixedLine">  params: z.object({</div><div class="FixedLine">    message: z.string(),</div><div class="FixedLine">    requestedSchema: z.any(),</div><div class="FixedLine">  }),</div><div class="FixedLine">});</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">async function main() {</div><div class="FixedLine">  // --- 1. Initialize MCP and Gemini Clients ---</div><div class="FixedLine">  const mcpClient = new Client(</div><div class="FixedLine">    {</div><div class="FixedLine">      name: 'gemini-chat-client',</div><div class="FixedLine">      version: '1.0.0',</div><div class="FixedLine">    },</div><div class="FixedLine">    {</div><div class="FixedLine">      capabilities: {</div><div class="FixedLine">        sampling: {},        // We advertise that we can handle sampling requests</div><div class="FixedLine">        elicitation: {},     // We advertise that we can handle elicitation requests</div><div class="FixedLine">        roots: {</div><div class="FixedLine">          listChanged: true, // We advertise that we send root list change notifications<span id="ITerm19"></span></div><div class="FixedLine">        },</div><div class="FixedLine">        tools: {</div><div class="FixedLine">          listChanged: true, // We can handle dynamic tool list updates</div><div class="FixedLine">        },</div><div class="FixedLine">      },<span id="ITerm20"></span></div><div class="FixedLine">    }</div><div class="FixedLine">  );</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">  const genAI = new GoogleGenAI({ apiKey: process.env.GEMINI_API_KEY! });</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">  // The mcpToTool adapter creates a representation of the client's tools for the Gemini SDK.</div><div class="FixedLine">  let callableTool = mcpToTool(mcpClient);</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">  // We initialize the chat with a system prompt to guide its behavior.</div><div class="FixedLine">  let chat: Chat = genAI.chats.create({</div><div class="FixedLine">    model: 'gemini-2.5-flash',</div><div class="FixedLine">    config: {</div><div class="FixedLine">      tools: [callableTool],</div><div class="FixedLine">    },</div><div class="FixedLine">    history: [</div><div class="FixedLine">      {</div><div class="FixedLine">        role: 'user',<span id="ITerm21"></span></div><div class="FixedLine">        parts: [</div><div class="FixedLine">          {</div><div class="FixedLine">            text: "SYSTEM INSTRUCTION: You are a helpful assistant for a SQL database. When asked to describe or summarize a table, you should first get the table's schema and then select its data to provide a summary. Do not assume a 'summarize' or 'describe' tool exists<span id="ITerm22"></span>. Use the available tools to accomplish the task.",</div><div class="FixedLine">          },</div><div class="FixedLine">        ],</div><div class="FixedLine">      },</div><div class="FixedLine">      {</div><div class="FixedLine">        role: 'model',</div><div class="FixedLine">        parts: [</div><div class="FixedLine">          {</div><div class="FixedLine">            text: 'Understood. I will use the available<span id="ITerm23"></span> tools to answer questions about the database.',</div><div class="FixedLine">          },</div><div class="FixedLine">        ],</div><div class="FixedLine">      },</div><div class="FixedLine">    ],</div><div class="FixedLine">  });</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">  const rl = readline.createInterface({ input, output });</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">  // ... Handlers and the main loop will go here ...</div><div class="FixedLine">}</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">main().catch(console.error);</div></div></div></div><div class="Para" id="Par26"><span aria-label="123" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB123" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Dissection of the Setup</b><div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par27"><span id="ITerm24"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Client Capabilities</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> In the <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">Client</span> constructor, we explicitly declare our client’s capabilities. This is the client’s side of the contract, telling the server, “I am equipped to handle requests for <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">sampling</span>, <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">elicitation</span>, and <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">roots</span>, and I understand <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">listChanged</span> notifications for tools.”</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par28"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Adapter:</b> The <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">mcpToTool</span> <span id="ITerm25">function</span> is a crucial utility from the <span id="ITerm26">Google GenAI SDK</span>. It inspects our <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">mcpClient</span>, discovers all its available tools via the initial handshake, <span aria-label="124" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB124" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>and wraps them in a format the Gemini model can understand. We store this value in a let variable because we will need to update it when the server sends a notification.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par29"><span id="ITerm27"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">System Prompt</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> We provide a strong system prompt in the chat history. This is a best practice for guiding the LLM’s reasoning, preventing it from hallucinating nonexistent tools and instructing it to use a multistep process to <span id="ITerm28">achieve</span> its goals.</p></li></ul></div></div></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec3Heading" class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec3"><h2 class="Heading" id="Sec3Heading">Step 3: The Bidirectional Contract-Handling Server-Initiated Communication</h2><p class="Para" id="Par30">A robust <span id="ITerm29">client</span> is an active listener. We must define how our client will react to notifications and requests sent from the server using <span id="ITerm30"><span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">setNotificationHandler</span></span> and <span id="ITerm31"><span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">setRequestHandler</span></span>.</p><section aria-labelledby="Sec4Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec4"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec4Heading">Handling Notifications</h3><div class="Para" id="Par31">Notifications are one-way <span id="ITerm32">messages</span><span id="ITerm33"></span> from the server to inform the client of a state change. We need to handle three types of notifications:<div class="OrderedList"><ol><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">1.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par32"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Tool List Changes</b>: When tools are added or removed</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">2.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par33"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Resource Updates:</b> When a specific resource’s content changes</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">3.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par34"><span aria-label="125" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB125" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Resource List Changes:</b> When resources are added or <span id="ITerm34">removed</span></p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li></ol></div></div><div class="Para" id="Par35">File: <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">src/client.ts</span> (continued)<div class="ProgramCode" id="PC12"><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">// --- 2. Set up handlers for server messages ---</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">  // Handle tool list changes<span id="ITerm35"></span></div><div class="FixedLine">  mcpClient.setNotificationHandler(</div><div class="FixedLine">    ListChangedNotificationSchema,</div><div class="FixedLine">    async (_notification) =&gt; {</div><div class="FixedLine">      console.log('\nTool list updated. Re-initializing chat model...');</div><div class="FixedLine">      // Re-run the adapter to get the new tool list</div><div class="FixedLine">      callableTool = mcpToTool(mcpClient);</div><div class="FixedLine">      // Create a new chat instance with the updated tools</div><div class="FixedLine">      // Note: We preserve the conversation history to maintain context</div><div class="FixedLine">      chat = genAI.chats.create({</div><div class="FixedLine">        model: 'gemini-2.5-flash',</div><div class="FixedLine">        config: {</div><div class="FixedLine">          tools: [callableTool],</div><div class="FixedLine">        },</div><div class="FixedLine">        history: chat.history, // IMPORTANT: Preserve the conversation history</div><div class="FixedLine">      });</div><div class="FixedLine">    }</div><div class="FixedLine">  );</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">  // Handle resource updates (when a specific resource's content changes)</div><div class="FixedLine">  mcpClient.setNotificationHandler(</div><div class="FixedLine">    ResourceUpdatedNotificationSchema<span id="ITerm36"></span>,</div><div class="FixedLine">    async (notification) =&gt; {</div><div class="FixedLine">      console.log(</div><div class="FixedLine">        `\nReceived update for resource ${notification.params.uri}: ${notification.params.title}`</div><div class="FixedLine">      );</div><div class="FixedLine">    }<span id="ITerm37"></span></div><div class="FixedLine">  );</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">  // Handle resource list changes (when resources are added or removed)</div><div class="FixedLine">  mcpClient.setNotificationHandler(</div><div class="FixedLine">    ResourceListChangedNotificationSchema<span id="ITerm38"></span>,</div><div class="FixedLine">    async () =&gt; {</div><div class="FixedLine">      console.log('\nResource list updated.');</div><div class="FixedLine">      // Optionally refresh resource list if needed</div><div class="FixedLine">    }</div><div class="FixedLine">  );</div></div></div></div><div class="Para" id="Par36"><span aria-label="126" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB126" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Dissection of Notification Handlers</b><span id="ITerm39"></span><div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par37"><span id="ITerm40"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Tool List Changed Handler</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> This <span id="ITerm41">handler</span> is our client’s reaction to dynamic tool changes, such as when the <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">adminLogin</span> tool on the server enables the <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">executeModification</span> tool. When the server sends the <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">tools/list_changed</span> notification, this code executes, re-inspects the <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">mcpClient</span> for its new set of tools, and seamlessly updates the chat model while preserving conversation history.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par38"><span id="ITerm42"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Resource Updated Handler</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> This handler logs when a specific resource’s <span id="ITerm43">content</span> has been updated. For <span aria-label="127" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB127" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>example, when a table is modified, the server sends a notification about that specific table’s schema resource.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par39"><span id="ITerm44"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Resource List Changed Handler</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> This handler is triggered when the list of available resources changes, such as when a new <span id="ITerm45">table</span> is created or an existing one is deleted.</p></li></ul></div></div></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec5Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec5"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec5Heading">Responding to Server Requests</h3><div class="Para" id="Par40">Requests are two-way <span id="ITerm46">messages</span> where the server asks the client for information and waits for a response. We need to handle three types of <span id="ITerm47">requests</span>:<div class="OrderedList"><ol><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">1.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par41"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Roots</b>: The server requests information about the client’s environment.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">2.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par42"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Sampling</b>: The server requests the client to use its LLM for a task.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">3.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par43"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Elicitation</b>: The server requests structured input from the user.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li></ol></div></div><div class="Para" id="Par44"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">File:</b> <span id="ITerm48"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">src/client.ts</b></span> <b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">(continued)</b><div class="ProgramCode" id="PC13"><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">// --- Deep Dive: Understanding and Handling Roots ---</div><div class="FixedLine">  // A "Root" is a top-level context of the client application. For an IDE, this would be the</div><div class="FixedLine">  // project folder. For our CLI, it's the current working directory. The server might request</div><div class="FixedLine">  // this to gain context about the client's environment.</div><div class="FixedLine">  mcpClient.setRequestHandler(</div><div class="FixedLine">    z.object({</div><div class="FixedLine">      method: z.literal('roots/list'),</div><div class="FixedLine">      params: z.object({}).passthrough(),</div><div class="FixedLine">    }),</div><div class="FixedLine">    async () =&gt; {</div><div class="FixedLine">      console.log('Received roots/list request from server.');</div><div class="FixedLine">      return {</div><div class="FixedLine">        roots: [</div><div class="FixedLine">          {</div><div class="FixedLine">            uri: `file://${process.cwd()}`,</div><div class="FixedLine">            name: 'mcp-gemini-client',</div><div class="FixedLine">          },</div><div class="FixedLine">        ],</div><div class="FixedLine">      };</div><div class="FixedLine">    }</div><div class="FixedLine">  );</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">  // --- Deep Dive: Understanding and Handling Sampling ---</div><div class="FixedLine">  // "Sampling" is when the server "borrows" the client's LLM to perform a reasoning task.</div><div class="FixedLine">  // This allows servers to be lightweight and centralizes LLM costs and credentials on the client.</div><div class="FixedLine">  mcpClient.setRequestHandler(SampleRequestSchema, async (request) =&gt; {</div><div class="FixedLine">    console.log(</div><div class="FixedLine">      '\nReceived a message from the server that requires a response...'</div><div class="FixedLine">    );</div><div class="FixedLine">    const summarizerChat = genAI.chats.create({</div><div class="FixedLine">      model: 'gemini-2.5-flash',</div><div class="FixedLine">    });</div><div class="FixedLine">    let result;<span id="ITerm49"></span></div><div class="FixedLine">    try {</div><div class="FixedLine">      result = await summarizerChat.sendMessage({</div><div class="FixedLine">        message: request.params.messages.map((m) =&gt; m.content.text).join('\n'),</div><div class="FixedLine">      });</div><div class="FixedLine">    } catch (e) {</div><div class="FixedLine">      const error = e as Error;</div><div class="FixedLine">      console.error('Error in summarizer chat:', error);</div><div class="FixedLine">      return {</div><div class="FixedLine">        role: 'assistant',</div><div class="FixedLine">        content: {</div><div class="FixedLine">          type: 'text',</div><div class="FixedLine">          text: 'Could not generate a response due to an API error.',</div><div class="FixedLine">        },</div><div class="FixedLine">      };</div><div class="FixedLine">    }</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">    const responseText =</div><div class="FixedLine">result.candidates?.[0]?.content?.parts?.[0]?.text ??</div><div class="FixedLine">      'Could not generate a response.';</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">    // The handler must return a valid Result object</div><div class="FixedLine">    return {</div><div class="FixedLine">      role: 'assistant',</div><div class="FixedLine">      content: {</div><div class="FixedLine">        type: 'text',</div><div class="FixedLine">        text: responseText<span id="ITerm50"></span>,</div><div class="FixedLine">      },</div><div class="FixedLine">    };</div><div class="FixedLine">  });</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">  // --- Deep Dive: Understanding and Handling Elicitation ---</div><div class="FixedLine">  // "Elicitation" is the formal process for a server to securely ask the user for structured</div><div class="FixedLine">  // input. The server provides a JSON schema defining the data it needs.</div><div class="FixedLine">  mcpClient.setRequestHandler(ElicitInputRequestSchema, async (request) =&gt; {</div><div class="FixedLine">    console.log(`\nServer asks: ${request.params.message}`);</div><div class="FixedLine">    const schema = request.params.requestedSchema;</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">    if (schema.type !== 'object' || !schema.properties) {</div><div class="FixedLine">      console.log('Unsupported input type requested by server.');</div><div class="FixedLine">      return {</div><div class="FixedLine">        action: 'decline',</div><div class="FixedLine">      };</div><div class="FixedLine">    }</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">    const content: Record&lt;string, unknown&gt; = {};</div><div class="FixedLine">    // Dynamically prompt the user based on the schema from the server<span id="ITerm51"></span></div><div class="FixedLine">    for (const [key, value] of Object.entries(schema.properties)) {</div><div class="FixedLine">      const property = value as { description: string };</div><div class="FixedLine">      const userInput = await rl.question(`${property.description}: `);</div><div class="FixedLine">      content[key] = userInput;</div><div class="FixedLine">    }</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">    return {</div><div class="FixedLine">      action: 'accept',</div><div class="FixedLine">      content,</div><div class="FixedLine">    };</div><div class="FixedLine">  });</div></div></div></div><div class="Para" id="Par45"><span aria-label="131" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB131" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Dissection of</b> <span id="ITerm52"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Request Handlers</b></span><div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par46"><span id="ITerm53"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Roots Handler</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> When the server requests roots, it’s asking for context about the client’s environment. Our handler returns the current working directory as a root, which gives the server information about where the client is operating.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par47"><span id="ITerm54"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Sampling Handler</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> This handler demonstrates how the server can leverage the client’s LLM. We create a separate chat instance for the summarization task, handle potential errors gracefully, and return a properly formatted response. This pattern centralizes LLM costs and credentials on the client side.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par48"><span id="ITerm55"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Elicitation Handler</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> This handler implements a schema-driven approach to collecting user input. The server provides a <span id="ITerm56">JSON schema</span> with property descriptions, and our handler dynamically prompts the user for each field. This ensures type safety and provides a structured <span id="ITerm57">way</span> for servers to request user data.</p></li></ul></div></div></section>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec6Heading" class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec6"><h2 class="Heading" id="Sec6Heading">Step 4: Orchestrating the Agent—The Manual Tool-Calling Loop</h2><p class="Para" id="Par49">This is the <span id="ITerm58">core</span> of our client’s logic, where we manually manage the conversation between the LLM and the MCP server. We’ll implement robust error handling to ensure the application remains stable even when tools fail or return unexpected results.</p><div class="Para" id="Par50"><span aria-label="132" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB132" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>File: <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">src/client.ts</span> (continued)<div class="ProgramCode" id="PC14"><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">// --- 3. Connect to the server ---</div><div class="FixedLine">  console.log('Connecting to MCP server...');</div><div class="FixedLine">  const mcpTransport = new StreamableHTTPClientTransport(</div><div class="FixedLine">    new URL('http://localhost:3000/mcp')</div><div class="FixedLine">  );</div><div class="FixedLine">  await mcpClient.connect(mcpTransport);</div><div class="FixedLine">  console.log(</div><div class="FixedLine">    'Successfully connected to MCP server. All tools are now available.'</div><div class="FixedLine">  );</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">  // --- 4. Start the Interactive Chat Loop ---</div><div class="FixedLine">  console.log(</div><div class="FixedLine">    "\nChat with Gemini (connected to SQLite Explorer). Type 'exit' to quit."</div><div class="FixedLine">  );</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">  while (true) {</div><div class="FixedLine">    const userInput = await rl.question('You: ');</div><div class="FixedLine">    if (userInput.toLowerCase() === 'exit') {</div><div class="FixedLine">      break;</div><div class="FixedLine">    }<span id="ITerm59"></span></div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">    let result;</div><div class="FixedLine">    try {</div><div class="FixedLine">      result = await chat.sendMessage({ message: userInput });</div><div class="FixedLine">    } catch (e) {</div><div class="FixedLine">      const error = e as Error;</div><div class="FixedLine">      console.error('Error sending message to Gemini:', error);</div><div class="FixedLine">      console.log('Assistant: I encountered an API error. Please try again.');</div><div class="FixedLine">      continue;</div><div class="FixedLine">    }</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">    // The agentic loop begins here</div><div class="FixedLine">    // eslint-disable-next-line no-constant-condition</div><div class="FixedLine">    while (true) {</div><div class="FixedLine">      const functionCalls = result.candidates?.[0]?.content?.parts?.filter(</div><div class="FixedLine">        (part: Part) =&gt; !!part.functionCall<span id="ITerm60"></span></div><div class="FixedLine">      );</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">      if (!functionCalls || functionCalls.length === 0) {</div><div class="FixedLine">        // No more function calls, so we're done with this turn.</div><div class="FixedLine">        break;</div><div class="FixedLine">      }</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">      const toolCallResponses: Part[] = [];</div><div class="FixedLine">      for (const part of functionCalls) {</div><div class="FixedLine">        const { functionCall } = part;</div><div class="FixedLine">        if (!functionCall || !functionCall.name) {</div><div class="FixedLine">          continue;</div><div class="FixedLine">        }<span id="ITerm61"></span></div><div class="FixedLine">        console.log(</div><div class="FixedLine">          `Assistant: Calling tool ${functionCall.name} with args:`,</div><div class="FixedLine">          functionCall.args</div><div class="FixedLine">        );</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">        try {</div><div class="FixedLine">          // Manually make the request to the MCP client</div><div class="FixedLine">          const toolResult = await mcpClient.request(</div><div class="FixedLine">            {</div><div class="FixedLine">              method: 'tools/call',</div><div class="FixedLine">              params: {</div><div class="FixedLine">                name: functionCall.name,</div><div class="FixedLine">                arguments: functionCall.args<span id="ITerm62"></span>,</div><div class="FixedLine">              },</div><div class="FixedLine">            },</div><div class="FixedLine">            CallToolResultSchema</div><div class="FixedLine">          );</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">          toolCallResponses.push({</div><div class="FixedLine">            functionResponse: {</div><div class="FixedLine">              name: functionCall.name,</div><div class="FixedLine">              response: {</div><div class="FixedLine">                content: toolResult.content,</div><div class="FixedLine">              },</div><div class="FixedLine">            },</div><div class="FixedLine">          });</div><div class="FixedLine">        } catch (e) {</div><div class="FixedLine">          const error = e as Error;</div><div class="FixedLine">          console.error(`Error calling tool ${functionCall.name}:`, error);</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">          // Provide a clear error response to the LLM</div><div class="FixedLine">          toolCallResponses.push({</div><div class="FixedLine">            functionResponse: {</div><div class="FixedLine">              name: functionCall.name<span id="ITerm63"></span>,</div><div class="FixedLine">              response: {</div><div class="FixedLine">                content: `Tool call failed with error: ${error.message}`,</div><div class="FixedLine">              },</div><div class="FixedLine">            },</div><div class="FixedLine">          });</div><div class="FixedLine">        }</div><div class="FixedLine">      }</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">      // Send the tool responses back to the model to continue the conversation</div><div class="FixedLine">      // We add safety checks to ensure we always send valid responses</div><div class="FixedLine">      try {</div><div class="FixedLine">        let safeToolCallResponses = toolCallResponses<span id="ITerm64"></span>;</div><div class="FixedLine">        if (</div><div class="FixedLine">          !toolCallResponses.length ||</div><div class="FixedLine">          toolCallResponses.every(</div><div class="FixedLine">            (resp) =&gt;</div><div class="FixedLine">              !resp.functionResponse ||</div><div class="FixedLine">              !resp.functionResponse.response ||</div><div class="FixedLine">              !resp.functionResponse.response.content ||</div><div class="FixedLine">              (typeof resp.functionResponse.response.content === 'string' &amp;&amp;</div><div class="FixedLine">                !resp.functionResponse.response.content.trim())</div><div class="FixedLine">          )</div><div class="FixedLine">        ) {</div><div class="FixedLine">          // Provide a default message if all responses are empty or invalid</div><div class="FixedLine">          safeToolCallResponses = [</div><div class="FixedLine">            {</div><div class="FixedLine">              functionResponse: {</div><div class="FixedLine">                name: 'unknown',</div><div class="FixedLine">                response: {</div><div class="FixedLine">                  content:</div><div class="FixedLine">                    'Operation completed, but no details<span id="ITerm65"></span> were returned by the tool.',</div><div class="FixedLine">                },</div><div class="FixedLine">              },</div><div class="FixedLine">            },</div><div class="FixedLine">          ];</div><div class="FixedLine">        }</div><div class="FixedLine">        result = await chat.sendMessage({ message: safeToolCallResponses });</div><div class="FixedLine">      } catch (e) {</div><div class="FixedLine">        const error = e as Error;</div><div class="FixedLine">        console.error('Error sending message to Gemini:', error);</div><div class="FixedLine">        console.log('Assistant: I encountered an API error. Please try again.');</div><div class="FixedLine">        // Break out of the inner while loop<span id="ITerm66"></span> and let the user try again.</div><div class="FixedLine">        break;</div><div class="FixedLine">      }</div><div class="FixedLine">    }</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">    const text = result.candidates?.[0]?.content?.parts?.[0]?.text ?? '';</div><div class="FixedLine">    console.log('Assistant:', text);</div><div class="FixedLine">  }</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">  // --- 5. Clean up resources ---</div><div class="FixedLine">  rl.close();</div><div class="FixedLine">  await mcpClient.close();</div><div class="FixedLine">  console.log('Connection closed. Exiting.');</div><div class="FixedLine">}</div></div></div></div><div class="Para" id="Par51"><span aria-label="136" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB136" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Dissection of the</b> <span id="ITerm67"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Agentic Loop</b></span><div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par52"><span id="ITerm68"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Outer Loop</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> The main conversation <span id="ITerm69">loop</span> that reads user input and processes each turn of the conversation.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par53"><span id="ITerm70"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Inner Loop</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> The agentic loop that handles multistep tool calling. The LLM may need to call multiple tools in sequence to answer a question, and this loop continues until the LLM has no more function calls to make.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par54"><span aria-label="137" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB137" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><span id="ITerm71"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Error Handling</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> Each tool call is wrapped in a try-catch block. If a tool fails, we provide a clear error message to the LLM so it can adjust its approach. This prevents the entire conversation from breaking when a single tool call fails.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par55"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Safety Checks:</b> Before sending tool responses back to the LLM, we validate that we have meaningful responses. If all responses are empty or invalid, we provide a default message. This ensures the LLM always receives valid input and can continue the conversation.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par56"><span id="ITerm72"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Tool Call Logging</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> We log each tool call with its arguments, which helps with debugging and understanding the LLM’s <span id="ITerm73">reasoning</span> process.</p></li></ul></div></div></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec7Heading" class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec7"><h2 class="Heading" id="Sec7Heading">Step 5: Running the End-to-End System and a Guided Interaction</h2><div class="Para" id="Par57">To see our complete <span id="ITerm74">system</span> in action, you must run the server and client in separate terminals.<div class="OrderedList"><ol><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">1.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par58"><span id="ITerm75"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Terminal 1 (Server)</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> Navigate to your <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">mcp-sqlite-server-advanced</span> project and run the HTTP server:</p><p class="Para" id="Par59"><span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">npx ts-node src/</span><span class="ExternalRef"><a href="http://run-http.ts"><span class="RefSource"><span class="EmphasisTypeUnderline EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">run-http.ts</span></span></a></span></p><p class="Para" id="Par60">You should see the message: <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">MCP Streamable HTTP Server listening on http://localhost:3000/mcp</span></p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">2.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par61"><span id="ITerm76"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Terminal 2 (Client)</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> Navigate to your <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">mcp-gemini-client</span> project and run the client:</p><p class="Para" id="Par62"><span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">npx ts-node src/</span><span class="ExternalRef"><a href="http://client.ts"><span class="RefSource"><span class="EmphasisTypeUnderline EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">client.ts</span></span></a></span></p><p class="Para" id="Par63">You should see the connection success messages.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li></ol></div><span aria-label="138" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB138" role="doc-pagebreak"></span></div><p class="Para" id="Par64">Now, let’s walk through the interaction from your log, explaining what’s happening at each step.</p><section aria-labelledby="Sec8Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec8"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec8Heading">Interaction 1: Dynamic Capabilities</h3><div class="Para" id="Par65">You: log in as <span id="ITerm77">admin</span> using secret-password.<div class="OrderedList"><ol><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">1.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par66"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Client:</b> Sends this message to Gemini.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">2.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par67"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Gemini:</b> Responds with a <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">functionCall</span> for the <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">adminLogin</span> tool.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">3.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par68"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Client:</b> The manual loop catches this and calls <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">mcpClient.request</span> for <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">adminLogin</span>.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">4.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par69"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Server:</b> Receives the call, enables the <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">executeModification</span> tool, and sends a <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">tools/list_changed</span> notification. It also sends a <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">roots/list</span> request.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">5.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par70"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Client:</b> The <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">ListChangedNotificationSchema</span> handler fires, re-initializing the chat with the new tool list. The <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">roots/list</span> handler fires, responding with the current directory.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">6.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par71"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Client:</b> The <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">adminLogin</span> tool call returns success. The client sends this result back to Gemini.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">7.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par72"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Gemini:</b> Synthesizes the final response.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li></ol></div></div><p class="Para" id="Par73">Assistant: Admin access <span id="ITerm78">granted</span>. The “executeModification” <span id="ITerm79">tool</span> is now available.</p></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec9Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec9"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec9Heading">Interaction 2: Elicitation</h3><div class="Para" id="Par74"><span aria-label="139" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB139" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>You: add a user.<div class="OrderedList"><ol><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">1.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par75"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Client:</b> <span id="ITerm80">Sends</span> this to Gemini.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">2.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par76"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Gemini:</b> Responds with a <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">functionCall</span> for the <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">addUser</span> tool (which takes no arguments).</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">3.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par77"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Client:</b> The loop calls <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">mcpClient.request</span> for <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">addUser</span>.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">4.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par78"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Server:</b> The <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">addUser</span> handler executes and sends an <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">elicitation/create</span> request back to the client, asking for the user’s name and email via a schema.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">5.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par79"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Client:</b> The <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">ElicitInputRequestSchema</span> handler fires. It dynamically prints the prompts from the schema’s <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">description</span> fields to the console.</p><p class="Para" id="Par80">Server asks: Please <span id="ITerm81">provide</span> the new user’s information.</p><p class="Para" id="Par81">The user’s full name: qwerty</p><p class="Para" id="Par82">The user’s email address: asdf@gmail.com</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">6.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par83"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Client:</b> The handler collects the input and sends an <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">{ action: 'accept', content: { ... } }</span> response back to the waiting server.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">7.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par84"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Server:</b> The <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">addUser</span> <span id="ITerm82">handler</span> receives the content, performs the database INSERT, sends a <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">resources/list_changed</span> notification, and returns success.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">8.</div><div class="ItemContent"><div class="Para" id="Par85"><span aria-label="140" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB140" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Client:</b><div class="OrderedList"><ol><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">a.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par86">The <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">ResourceListChangedNotificationSchema</span> <span id="ITerm83">handler</span><span id="ITerm84"></span> fires, logging “Resource list updated.”</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">b.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par87">The loop sends the success result back to Gemini.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li></ol></div></div></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">9.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par88"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Gemini:</b> Synthesizes the final response.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li></ol></div></div><p class="Para" id="Par89">Assistant: I’ve added a user. The user’s details were collected interactively. The response indicates the user was added successfully.</p></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec10Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec10"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec10Heading">Interaction 3: Resource Updates</h3><div class="Para" id="Par90">You: insert a new user into the <span id="ITerm85">users</span> table with name “Test User” and email “<span class="ExternalRef"><span class="RefSource">test@example.​com</span></span>”.<div class="OrderedList"><ol><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">1.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par91"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Client</b>: Sends this to Gemini.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">2.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par92"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Gemini</b>: Calls the <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">executeModification</span> tool with the INSERT operation.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">3.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par93"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Server</b>: Executes the INSERT, sends a resources/updated notification for the users table, and returns success with the new row ID.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">4.</div><div class="ItemContent"><div class="Para" id="Par94"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Client</b>:<div class="OrderedList"><ol><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">a.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par95">The <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">ResourceUpdatedNotificationSchema</span> handler fires, logging: Received update for resource schema://table/users: Schema for users (updated).</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">b.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par96">The tool results are sent back to Gemini.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li></ol></div></div></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">5.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par97"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Gemini</b>: <span id="ITerm86">Synthesizes</span> the final response.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li></ol></div></div><p class="Para" id="Par98">Assistant: A new user “Test User” with email “<span class="ExternalRef"><span class="RefSource">test@example.​com</span></span>” has been successfully inserted into the “users” table with ID 10.</p></section>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec11Heading" class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec11"><h2 class="Heading" id="Sec11Heading">Chapter Summary</h2><p class="Para" id="Par99"><span aria-label="141" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB141" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>In this chapter, we built a truly robust and <span id="ITerm87">sophisticated MCP client</span>, moving far beyond simple abstractions to take full manual control of the agentic loop. We designed a fully bidirectional client capable of handling notifications and requests from the server by implementing <span id="ITerm88">handlers</span> for <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">tools/list_changed, resources/updated, resources/list_changed,</span> and spec-compliant, schema-aware handlers for <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">roots/list, sampling/createMessage</span>, and <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">elicitation/create.</span> We detailed the purpose and implementation of each of these advanced, server-initiated patterns.</p><p class="Para" id="Par100">Most importantly, we engineered a resilient application with robust <span id="ITerm89">error handling</span>, ensuring our client gracefully handles tool failures, validates responses, and maintains conversation context even when tools are dynamically added or removed. With the advanced patterns you now possess, you can construct production-grade client applications that fully utilize <span id="ITerm90">MCP’s capabilities</span>.</p></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec12Heading" class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec12"><h2 class="Heading" id="Sec12Heading">Key Takeaways</h2><div class="Para" id="Par101"><div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par102"><span id="ITerm91"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Manual Control Is Power</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> Taking control of the tool-calling loop, while more complex, allows for superior error handling, custom logic, and resilient patterns that are essential for production applications.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par103"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Clients Must Be Active Listeners:</b> MCP is a <span id="ITerm92">bidirectional protocol</span>. A robust client must declare its capabilities and implement handlers for server-sent notifications (<span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">tools/list_changed, resources/updated, resources/list_changed</span>) and requests (<span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">roots/list, sampling, elicitation</span>).</p></li><li><div class="Para" id="Par104"><span aria-label="142" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB142" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Understand the Bidirectional Contract:</b><div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par105"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Roots</b> provide the server with context about the client’s environment.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par106"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Sampling</b> allows the server to leverage the client’s powerful LLM, centralizing costs and complexity.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par107"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Elicitation</b> is the secure, schema-driven mechanism for a server to request structured input directly from the user.</p></li></ul></div></div></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par108"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Re-initialize on Capability Changes</b>: When a server’s capabilities <span id="ITerm93">change</span>, the client must update its state. The correct pattern is to re-run the <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">mcpToTool</span> adapter and re-initialize the chat model with the new toolset while preserving conversation history.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par109"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Build for Resilience:</b> Tool calls will fail. A resilient client anticipates this by catching errors, providing meaningful error messages to the LLM, and implementing safety checks to ensure valid responses are always sent.</p></li><li><div class="Para" id="Par110"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Handle All Notification Types:</b> A complete client implementation handles all three types of <span id="ITerm94">notifications</span>:<div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par111">Tool list changes (when tools are added/removed)</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par112">Resource updates (when specific resources change)</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par113">Resource list changes (when resources are added/removed)</p></li></ul></div></div></li><li><div class="Para" id="Par114"><span aria-label="143" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB143" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><span id="ITerm95"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Error Handling</b></span> <b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Is Critical:</b> Implement comprehensive error handling at every level:<div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par115">Tool call failures</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par116">LLM API errors</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par117">Invalid or empty responses</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par118">Network connectivity issues</p></li></ul></div></div></li></ul></div></div></section>
</div></section></div></div></body></html>