<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en" lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head><title>The MCP Standard: A Developer's Guide to Building Universal AI Tools with the Model Context Protocol</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/springer_epub.css"/></head><body><div id="book-content"><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section aria-labelledby="chaptertitle" class="ChapterInPart" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter"><div class="ChapterContextInformation"><div class="ContextInformation" id="b979-8-8688-2364-0_16"><div class="ChapterCopyright">© The Author(s), under exclusive license to APress Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature 2026</div><span class="ContextInformationAuthorEditorNames">S. Sekar</span><span class="ContextInformationBookTitles"><span class="BookTitle">The MCP Standard</span></span><span class="ChapterDOI"><a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/979-8-8688-2364-0_16">https://doi.org/10.1007/979-8-8688-2364-0_16</a></span></div></div><!--Begin Abstract--><div class="MainTitleSection"><h1 class="ChapterTitle" id="chaptertitle" lang="en">16. The Evolving Ecosystem and What’s Next</h1></div><div class="AuthorGroup"><div class="AuthorNames"><span class="Author"><span class="AuthorName">Srinivasan Sekar</span><sup><a href="#Aff2">1</a> <span class="ContactIcon"> </span></sup></span></div><div class="Affiliations"><div class="Affiliation" id="Aff2"><span class="AffiliationNumber">(1)</span><div class="AffiliationText">Bengaluru, Karnataka, India</div></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></div></div><!--End Abstract--><div class="Fulltext"><p class="Para" id="Par2"><span aria-label="253" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB253" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>The goal is to provide a strategic, forward-looking conclusion to the book, leaving the reader with a clear understanding of where the MCP ecosystem is heading and what their role in it can be.</p><section aria-labelledby="Sec1Heading" class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec1"><h2 class="Heading" id="Sec1Heading">Introduction: From a Standard to an Ecosystem</h2><p class="Para" id="Par3">We began this book by exploring how the MCP standard brings order to the fragmented world of proprietary APIs. We then analyzed its architecture, language, and processes for building and securing a complete MCP application, treating it primarily as technology. In this concluding chapter, we shift our focus to understanding <span id="ITerm1">MCP</span> as something grander: the bedrock of an evolving ecosystem. The true strength of any standard lies not merely in its technical specifications, but in the thriving community and interconnected network of compatible tools that emerge around it.</p></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec2Heading" class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec2"><h2 class="Heading" id="Sec2Heading">The Path to a Formal Standard</h2><div class="Para" id="Par4"><span aria-label="254" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB254" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>The MCP specification is a living document. The versioning we see (e.g., 2025-06-18) reflects a continuous process of refinement based on community feedback and real-world implementation experience. The journey from these dated revisions to a formal “1.0” release will likely focus on solidifying the advanced features we’ve discussed:<div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par5"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">A</b> <span id="ITerm2"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Hardened Security Model</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> Further refinement of the OAuth 2.1 integration, potentially with clearer guidelines for different grant types (like <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">client_credentials</span> for agent-to-agent communication).</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par6"><span id="ITerm3"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Richer Capability Definitions</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> More expressive power in tool and resource schemas, perhaps with more advanced annotation options.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par7"><span id="ITerm4"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Standardized Error Handling</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> More granular error codes to provide richer diagnostic information to clients.</p></li></ul></div></div></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec3Heading" class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec3"><h2 class="Heading" id="Sec3Heading">The Growing Adoption: The Network Effect in Action</h2><div class="Para" id="Par8">A standard is only as valuable as its adoption. As of this writing, the MCP ecosystem is exploding, driven by every major player in the AI and cloud industries.<div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par9"><span id="ITerm5"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Client-Side Adoption</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> Hosts like <b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">VS Code, Claude Desktop, and ChatGPT</b> now have native MCP support. Emerging open source tools, such as the Gemini CLI and mobile clients, standardize places where users interact with agents.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par10"><span aria-label="255" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB255" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><span id="ITerm6"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Server-Side Adoption</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> The barrier to entry for providing tools is dropping. <span id="ITerm7"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">AWS</b></span> now offers MCP servers for Lambda and ECS. <span id="ITerm8"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Cloudflare</b></span> provides tools to deploy servers in three lines of code. Companies like <span id="ITerm9"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Block</b></span> and <span id="ITerm10"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Salesforce</b></span> are building dozens of internal MCP servers to unify their infrastructure.</p></li></ul></div></div><p class="Para" id="Par11">The result is the network effect in action. Every new client that supports MCP increases the value for every server developer, and every new server that comes online increases the value for every client user. This positive feedback loop is the hallmark of a successful, growing ecosystem.</p></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec4Heading" class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec4"><h2 class="Heading" id="Sec4Heading">Emerging Patterns and Best Practices</h2><div class="Para" id="Par12">As this ecosystem matures, new architectural patterns are emerging from that point to the future of AI-native systems.<div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par13"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">The Rise of the</b> <span id="ITerm11"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Tool Marketplace</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> We will see the emergence of public and private MCP server registries. An enterprise will have its own internal marketplace where teams can publish and discover trusted tools. Publicly, companies will offer their APIs via official, secure MCP servers, allowing agents to dynamically discover and use new capabilities.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par14"><span id="ITerm12"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Multi-agent Systems (MCP + A2A)</b></span><span id="ITerm13"></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> The future is not a single, monolithic agent. It’s a system of collaborative, specialized agents. In this architecture, MCP and the <span id="ITerm14">Agent2Agent (A2A)</span> protocol will work in concert. An orchestration agent might use A2A to delegate a research task to a research agent. That research agent would then use MCP to communicate with its tools (databases, web search, etc.) to complete the task.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par15"><span aria-label="256" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB256" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">A</b> <span id="ITerm15"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">New Security Stack</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> The unique threats of agentic systems are giving rise to a new layer of the <span id="ITerm16">security stack</span>. Tools like MCP-scan and Secure Hulk for static “Toxic Flow Analysis” and runtime guardrails that monitor MCP traffic in real time will become essential for AI applications as a Web Application Firewall (WAF) for traditional web apps.</p></li></ul></div></div></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec5Heading" class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec5"><h2 class="Heading" id="Sec5Heading">Final Thoughts: Your Role in Building a Unified AI Future</h2><div class="Para" id="Par16">The shift from a fractured past to a cohesive, interoperable <span id="ITerm17">future</span> isn’t a given; it’s something the community actively builds. By mastering this standard, developers, architects, and technical leaders transition from mere technology consumers to active participants in its evolution.<div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par17"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Build Servers:</b> The most valuable contribution you can make is to wrap your own unique capabilities – your company’s APIs, your open source libraries, and your personal scripts – in a standard MCP server and share them.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par18"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Advocate for the Standard:</b> When choosing platforms, tools, and vendors, ask if they support open standards like MCP. I prefer interoperability over proprietary, locked-in ecosystems.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par19"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Contribute to the Spec:</b> The MCP specification is developed in the open on <span id="ITerm18">GitHub</span>. Participate in the discussion, report issues, and help shape the future of the protocol.</p></li></ul></div></div><p class="Para" id="Par20"><span aria-label="257" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB257" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>We began this book in an age of tooling chaos. We end it at the dawn of a new ecosystem. The MCP standard provides the common language, the stable foundation upon which we can all build the next generation of intelligent applications together.</p></section>
</div></section></div></div></body></html>