<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en" lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head><title>The MCP Standard: A Developer's Guide to Building Universal AI Tools with the Model Context Protocol</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/springer_epub.css"/></head><body><div id="book-content"><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section aria-labelledby="chaptertitle" class="ChapterInPart" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter"><div class="ChapterContextInformation"><div class="ContextInformation" id="b979-8-8688-2364-0_5"><div class="ChapterCopyright">© The Author(s), under exclusive license to APress Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature 2026</div><span class="ContextInformationAuthorEditorNames">S. Sekar</span><span class="ContextInformationBookTitles"><span class="BookTitle">The MCP Standard</span></span><span class="ChapterDOI"><a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/979-8-8688-2364-0_5">https://doi.org/10.1007/979-8-8688-2364-0_5</a></span></div></div><!--Begin Abstract--><div class="MainTitleSection"><h1 class="ChapterTitle" id="chaptertitle" lang="en">5. The Language of MCP: Tools, Resources, and Prompts</h1></div><div class="AuthorGroup"><div class="AuthorNames"><span class="Author"><span class="AuthorName">Srinivasan Sekar</span><sup><a href="#Aff2">1</a> <span class="ContactIcon"> </span></sup></span></div><div class="Affiliations"><div class="Affiliation" id="Aff2"><span class="AffiliationNumber">(1)</span><div class="AffiliationText">Bengaluru, Karnataka, India</div></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></div></div><!--End Abstract--><div class="Fulltext"><p class="Para" id="Par2"><span aria-label="47" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB47" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>We have met the three main characters in our architectural play: the Host, the Client, and the Server. We know what each of them does and how they work together on stage. Now we need to look at the script they are reading, which is the same language they use to talk to each other. The Model Context <span id="ITerm1">Protocol</span> is more than just a list of rules for sending messages. It is a full language for making your point and giving context.</p><p class="Para" id="Par3">This chapter is a guide for developers who want to learn that protocol. We will go beyond general definitions and into the real world of putting things into action. From the perspective of a TypeScript developer using the official <span id="ITerm2">@modelcontextprotocol/sdk</span>, we will break down the main features of MCP: Tools, Resources, and Prompts. We want to know what these primitives are and how to use them to create strong, reliable, and safe AI systems.</p><section aria-labelledby="Sec1Heading" class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec1"><h2 class="Heading" id="Sec1Heading">Breaking Down MCP’s Core Capabilities</h2><div class="Para" id="Par4"><span aria-label="48" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB48" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>There are three basic building blocks that make up the language of MCP. At first glance, they may look alike, but they are made for entirely unique purposes. The main design principle that sets them apart is the separation of control. The key to mastering the protocol is knowing who or what’s supposed to control each capability.<div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par5">The <span id="ITerm3"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">tools</b></span> are made for Model Control. They demonstrate the AI’s power to decide how to interact with the world.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par6">Application Control is what <span id="ITerm4"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">resources</b></span> are made for. They show that the Host can safely give the AI factual, read-only context.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par7">User Control is what <span id="ITerm5"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">prompts</b></span> are for. They show that the user can control how the AI acts and give it a personality for a certain job.</p></li></ul></div></div><p class="Para" id="Par8">With this framework of control in mind, let’s look at the structure and design philosophy of each one.</p></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec2Heading" class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec2"><h2 class="Heading" id="Sec2Heading">Tools: The Verbs of Action</h2><p class="Para" id="Par9"><span id="ITerm6">Tools</span> form the core of agents’ behavior. They are the “verbs” in the MCP language, representing executable actions that allow an AI to have a tangible effect on its environment. They are expected to perform computation, interact with external systems, and produce side effects.</p><section aria-labelledby="Sec3Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec3"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec3Heading">Anatomy of a Tool</h3><p class="Para" id="Par10"><span aria-label="49" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB49" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>The <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">@modelcontextprotocol/sdk</span> <span id="ITerm7">provides</span> an <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">McpServer</span> class. To add a tool, you use the modern <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">registerTool</span> method, which takes the tool’s name, a configuration object, and an <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">async</span> handler function. A best practice is to use the <b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Zod</b> <span id="ITerm8">library</span> for schema definition, which provides type safety for the developer and generates the JSON schema required by the protocol.</p><div class="Para" id="Par11">Let’s build a tool that fetches information about a package from the npm registry.<div class="ProgramCode" id="PC1"><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">// server.ts</div><div class="FixedLine">import { McpServer } from "@modelcontextprotocol/sdk/server/mcp.js";</div><div class="FixedLine">import axios from 'axios';</div><div class="FixedLine">import { z } from 'zod';</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">// 1. Create an instance of the MCP Server<span id="ITerm9"></span> with basic metadata.</div><div class="FixedLine">const server = new McpServer({</div><div class="FixedLine">  name: "npm-package-explorer",</div><div class="FixedLine">  version: "1.0.0"</div><div class="FixedLine">});</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">// 2. Define the input schema using Zod for type safety and description.</div><div class="FixedLine"> const inputSchema = {</div><div class="FixedLine">    packageName: z.string().describe("The name of the package on npm (e.g., 'react')."),</div><div class="FixedLine">};</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">// 3. Register the tool using the server.registerTool() method.</div><div class="FixedLine">server.registerTool(</div><div class="FixedLine">  "getNpmPackageInfo",</div><div class="FixedLine">  {</div><div class="FixedLine">    title: "NPM Package Info",</div><div class="FixedLine">    description: "Fetches primary information for a given public package from the npm registry.",</div><div class="FixedLine">    inputSchema: inputSchema</div><div class="FixedLine">  },</div><div class="FixedLine">  async ({ packageName }) =&gt; {</div><div class="FixedLine">    const apiUrl = `https://registry.npmjs.org/${packageName}`;</div><div class="FixedLine">    try {</div><div class="FixedLine">      const response = await axios.get(apiUrl);</div><div class="FixedLine">      const { name, description, license } = response.data;</div><div class="FixedLine">      const latestVersion = response.data['dist-tags']?.latest;</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">      return {</div><div class="FixedLine">        content: [{</div><div class="FixedLine">          type: "text",</div><div class="FixedLine">          text: `Package: ${name}\nDescription: ${description}\nLatest Version: ${latestVersion}\nLicense: ${license}`</div><div class="FixedLine">        }]</div><div class="FixedLine">      };</div><div class="FixedLine">    } catch (error) {</div><div class="FixedLine">      if (axios.isAxiosError(error) &amp;&amp; error.response?.status === 404) {</div><div class="FixedLine">        return { content: [{ type: "text", text: `Error: Package '${packageName}' not found on npm.` }], isError: true };</div><div class="FixedLine">      }</div><div class="FixedLine">      return { content: [{ type: "text", text: `Error: Failed to fetch package information. ${error.message}` }], isError: true };</div><div class="FixedLine">    }</div><div class="FixedLine">  }</div><div class="FixedLine">);</div></div></div></div><p class="Para" id="Par12"><span aria-label="51" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB51" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>This code shows a <span id="ITerm10">pattern</span> that is good enough for use in production. The description field tells the LLM what the tool is for and when to use it. The <span id="ITerm11">Zod schema</span> checks types at compile time and at runtime. The main business logic is in the async handler, and the try...catch block makes sure that network problems are handled well by sending back a structured error message instead of crashing the server. The return object has a flag called <span id="ITerm12">isError</span><span id="ITerm13"></span>: true that tells the client that the tool execution failed.</p></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec4Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec4"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec4Heading">Advanced Capabilities: ResourceLinks and Server-Side Sampling</h3><div class="Para" id="Par13">More <span id="ITerm14">advanced use cases</span> show the true power of tools.<div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><div class="Para" id="Par14">Going back by reference, think of a tool that can find more than one file. It would be very slow to send back the full contents of every file. The tool can return an array of <span id="ITerm15">ResourceLink objects</span> instead.<div class="ProgramCode" id="PC2"><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">// A tool that returns references to files, not their content.</div><div class="FixedLine">server.registerTool("listFiles", { /* ... metadata ... */ }, async ({ pattern }) =&gt; {</div><div class="FixedLine">  // ... logic to find files ...</div><div class="FixedLine">  return {</div><div class="FixedLine">    content: [</div><div class="FixedLine">      { type: "text", text: "Found 2 matching files:" },</div><div class="FixedLine">      {</div><div class="FixedLine">        type: "resource_link",</div><div class="FixedLine">        uri: "file:///project/src/index.ts",</div><div class="FixedLine">        name: "index.ts",</div><div class="FixedLine">        description: "The main entry point."</div><div class="FixedLine">      },</div><div class="FixedLine">      {</div><div class="FixedLine">        type: "resource_link",</div><div class="FixedLine">        uri: "file:///project/README.md",</div><div class="FixedLine">        name: "README.md",</div><div class="FixedLine">        description: "Project documentation."</div><div class="FixedLine">      }</div><div class="FixedLine">    ]</div><div class="FixedLine">  };</div><div class="FixedLine">}};</div></div></div></div></li></ul></div></div><p class="Para" id="Par15"><span aria-label="52" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB52" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>This pattern is <span id="ITerm16">powerful</span>. The LLM gets the list of files and can think about them. The Host application can then use a <span id="ITerm17">readResource</span> call to get the content of only the most important file. This technique saves bandwidth and valuable context window space.</p><p class="Para" id="Par16">What if a tool needs an LLM to work? <b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">The</b> <span id="ITerm18"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Server-Side Sampling MCP</b></span> <b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">allows a server to request completion from a connected client</b>. This is known as sampling.</p><div class="Para" id="Par17">A tool that uses the client’s LLM to summarize text.<div class="ProgramCode" id="PC3"><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">server.registerTool("summarize", { /* ... metadata ... */ }, async ({ text }) =&gt; {</div><div class="FixedLine">  const response = await server.server.createMessage({</div><div class="FixedLine">    messages: [{ role: "user", content: { type: "text", text: `Summarize: ${text}` } }],</div><div class="FixedLine">  });</div><div class="FixedLine">  return { content: [response.content] };</div><div class="FixedLine">}};</div></div></div></div><p class="Para" id="Par18">This lets you make lightweight, specialized servers that can handle complicated tasks by using the <span id="ITerm19">powerful</span> LLM that is already on the client side.</p></section>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec5Heading" class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec5"><h2 class="Heading" id="Sec5Heading">Resources: The Nouns of Context</h2><p class="Para" id="Par19"><span aria-label="53" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB53" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>In the MCP language, resources are called “nouns.” They are <span id="ITerm20">read-only data</span> that gives the AI important information about the situation. Their design is based on security and predictability, which moves control from the autonomous model to the Host application that is aware of its surroundings.</p><p class="Para" id="Par20">How a Resource Works</p><div class="Para" id="Par21">To register a resource with the <span id="ITerm21">@modelcontextprotocol/sdk</span>, use <span id="ITerm22">registerResource</span>. This method needs a name, a URI (which can be a static string or a dynamic ResourceTemplate), metadata, and a handler.<div class="ProgramCode" id="PC4"><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">import { ResourceTemplate } from "@modelcontextprotocol/sdk/server/mcp.js";</div><div class="FixedLine">import { promises as fs } from 'fs';</div><div class="FixedLine">import path from 'path';</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine"> // A dynamic resource for reading files from a specific<span id="ITerm23"></span>, safe directory.</div><div class="FixedLine">server.registerResource(</div><div class="FixedLine">  "project-file",</div><div class="FixedLine">  new ResourceTemplate("file://{filePath}", {</div><div class="FixedLine">    // The 'complete' function enables rich, context-aware autocompletion in the Host UI.</div><div class="FixedLine">    complete: {</div><div class="FixedLine">      filePath: async (value) =&gt; {</div><div class="FixedLine">        const safeBasePath = path.resolve('/var/data/project');</div><div class="FixedLine">        const entries = await fs.readdir(safeBasePath);</div><div class="FixedLine">        return entries.filter(entry =&gt; entry.startsWith(value));</div><div class="FixedLine">      }</div><div class="FixedLine">    }</div><div class="FixedLine">  }),</div><div class="FixedLine">  {</div><div class="FixedLine">    title: "Project File",</div><div class="FixedLine">    description: "Reads the content of a file<span id="ITerm24"></span> from the project directory."</div><div class="FixedLine">  },</div><div class="FixedLine">  async (uri, { filePath }) =&gt; {</div><div class="FixedLine">    const safeBasePath = path.resolve('/var/data/project');</div><div class="FixedLine">    const resolvedPath = path.resolve(path.join(safeBasePath, filePath));</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">    // This security check is non-negotiable for any resource that accesses the filesystem.</div><div class="FixedLine">    if (!resolvedPath.startsWith(safeBasePath)) {</div><div class="FixedLine">      throw new Error("Access denied. Path is outside the allowed directory.");</div><div class="FixedLine">    }</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">    const text = await fs.readFile(resolvedPath, 'utf-8');</div><div class="FixedLine">    return { contents: [{ uri: uri.href, text: text }] };</div><div class="FixedLine">  }</div><div class="FixedLine">);</div></div></div></div><p class="Para" id="Par22"><span aria-label="54" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB54" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>The <span id="ITerm25">ResourceTemplate class</span> is essential for dynamic resources because it parses URI parameters and sends them to the handler. The <span id="ITerm26">full function</span> is a wonderful feature that lets the server give the client smart autocomplete suggestions, which makes the user experience much better. The most important thing is that any secure resource implementation must include an explicit security check to stop directory traversal attacks.</p></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec6Heading" class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec6"><h2 class="Heading" id="Sec6Heading">Prompts: The Grammar of Conversation</h2><p class="Para" id="Par23"><span aria-label="55" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB55" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>The “grammar” of the MCP language is <span id="ITerm27">prompts</span>. They are conversation templates that tell the AI how to act, making sure it sticks to a certain structure or persona for a specific job.</p><p class="Para" id="Par24">What a Prompt Looks Like</p><div class="Para" id="Par25">With <span id="ITerm28">registerPrompt</span>, you create a named prompt with an argument schema and a handler that sends back a group of messages.<div class="ProgramCode" id="PC5"><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">import { completable } from "@modelcontextprotocol/sdk/server/completable.js";</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">server.registerPrompt(</div><div class="FixedLine">  "codeReviewerPersona",</div><div class="FixedLine">  {</div><div class="FixedLine">    title: "Code Reviewer Persona",</div><div class="FixedLine">    description: "Sets up the AI to act as a meticulous code reviewer.",</div><div class="FixedLine">    argsSchema: {</div><div class="FixedLine">      language: z.string().describe("The programming language for the persona."),</div><div class="FixedLine">      expertise: completable(z.enum(['junior', 'senior', 'principal']).default('senior'), (value) =&gt;</div><div class="FixedLine">        ['junior', 'senior', 'principal'].filter(level =&gt; level.startsWith(value))</div><div class="FixedLine">      )</div><div class="FixedLine">    }</div><div class="FixedLine">  },</div><div class="FixedLine">  ({ language, expertise }) =&gt; ({</div><div class="FixedLine">    messages: [{</div><div class="FixedLine">      role: "system",</div><div class="FixedLine">      content: {</div><div class="FixedLine">        type: "text",</div><div class="FixedLine">        text: `You are a ${expertise}-level software engineer specializing in ${language}. Your task is to provide a rigorous and constructive review of the code you are about to see.`</div><div class="FixedLine">      }</div><div class="FixedLine">    }]</div><div class="FixedLine">  })</div><div class="FixedLine">);</div></div></div></div><p class="Para" id="Par26"><span aria-label="56" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB56" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>Here, we use the <span id="ITerm29">SDK’s “completable” helper</span> to add completion logic to our Zod schema. The Host gets the `messages`array when it calls this prompt (e.g., when a user picks “Review Code as Senior Go dev” from a menu). Then it adds this to the conversation history *before* adding the user’s real code. This is the perfect way to “set the stage.” By making this a <span id="ITerm30">server-side prompt</span>, the logic for making these personas can be updated, shared, and reused in many applications without having to redeploy the Host clients.</p></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec7Heading" class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec7"><h2 class="Heading" id="Sec7Heading">Summary Table: Tools vs. Resources vs. Prompts</h2><p class="Para" id="Par27">To consolidate our <span id="ITerm31">understanding</span>, this table provides an at-a-glance comparison of the three core capabilities of MCP as shown in Table <span class="InternalRef"><a href="#Tab1">5-1</a></span>.</p></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec8Heading" class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec8"><h2 class="Heading" id="Sec8Heading">Overview of Tools, Resources, and Prompts</h2><div class="Para" id="Par28"><div class="Table" id="Tab1"><table class="TableStyle5"><caption class="Caption" lang="en"><div class="CaptionContent"><span class="CaptionNumber">Table 5-1</span><p class="SimplePara">Tools, Resources, and <span id="ITerm32">Prompts</span></p></div></caption><colgroup><col class="tcol1 align-left"/><col class="tcol2 align-left"/><col class="tcol3 align-left"/><col class="tcol4 align-left"/></colgroup><thead><tr><th class="TableStyle1" scope="col"><p class="SimplePara">Aspect</p></th><th class="TableStyle1" scope="col"><p class="SimplePara">Tools</p></th><th class="TableStyle1" scope="col"><p class="SimplePara">Resources</p></th><th class="TableStyle2" scope="col"><p class="SimplePara">Prompts</p></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><th class="TableStyle1" scope="row"><p class="SimplePara"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Primary Purpose</b></p></th><td class="TableStyle1"><p class="SimplePara">Perform actions, cause side effects.</p></td><td class="TableStyle1"><p class="SimplePara">Provide read-only context.</p></td><td class="TableStyle2"><p class="SimplePara">Guide behavior, set persona.</p></td></tr><tr><th class="TableStyle1" scope="row"><p class="SimplePara"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Typical Controller</b></p></th><td class="TableStyle1"><p class="SimplePara">Model (AI decides to use it)</p></td><td class="TableStyle1"><p class="SimplePara">Application (Host decides to fetch it)</p></td><td class="TableStyle2"><p class="SimplePara">User (User decides to apply it)</p></td></tr><tr><th class="TableStyle1" scope="row"><p class="SimplePara"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Invocation Style</b></p></th><td class="TableStyle1"><p class="SimplePara">Spontaneous, based on reasoning.</p></td><td class="TableStyle1"><p class="SimplePara">Proactive or on-demand by Host.</p></td><td class="TableStyle2"><p class="SimplePara">Explicit selection by user/Host.</p></td></tr><tr><th class="TableStyle1" scope="row"><p class="SimplePara"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Core SDK Method</b></p></th><td class="TableStyle1"><p class="SimplePara">server.registerTool()</p></td><td class="TableStyle1"><p class="SimplePara">server.registerResource()</p></td><td class="TableStyle2"><p class="SimplePara">server.registerPrompt()</p></td></tr><tr><th class="TableStyle1" scope="row"><p class="SimplePara"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Handler Returns</b></p></th><td class="TableStyle1"><p class="SimplePara">{ content: ContentPart[], isError?: boolean }</p></td><td class="TableStyle1"><p class="SimplePara">{ contents: ResourceContent[] }</p></td><td class="TableStyle2"><p class="SimplePara">{ messages: Message[] }</p></td></tr><tr><th class="TableStyle3" scope="row"><p class="SimplePara"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Core Design Principle</b></p></th><td class="TableStyle3"><p class="SimplePara">Granting agency to the AI.</p></td><td class="TableStyle3"><p class="SimplePara">Providing safe, contextual data.</p></td><td class="TableStyle4"><p class="SimplePara">Structuring the conversation.</p></td></tr></tbody></table></div></div></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec9Heading" class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec9"><h2 class="Heading" id="Sec9Heading">Chapter Summary</h2><p class="Para" id="Par29"><span aria-label="57" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB57" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>In this chapter, we explored the deep grammar behind the Model Context Protocol from the perspective of a Typescript developer. We looked at different components of it, which include Tools, Resources, and Prompts, and learnt how to build them using the official SDK and best practices like <span id="ITerm33">Zod</span> for managing schemas.</p><p class="Para" id="Par30">We learnt that tools are action verbs that the model controls, and schemas clearly define them. Resources are the nouns of context. The Host controls them, and URI templates keep them safe. Prompts are the grammar rules that the user controls to help them have a conversation. <span aria-label="58" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB58" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>We also explored advanced features, such as <span id="ITerm34">ResourceLink</span>, to improve performance with context-aware completions and server-side sampling, which helps create powerful, lightweight tools.</p></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec10Heading" class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec10"><h2 class="Heading" id="Sec10Heading">Key Takeaways</h2><p class="Para" id="Par31">Here are the most effective ways to build TypeScript apps: Use Zod along with the standard <span id="ITerm35">@modelcontextprotocol/sdk</span> when writing your MCP servers in TypeScript to make sure they work. You can be sure that your solutions follow the MCP standard and are type-safe when you put these two together.</p><p class="Para" id="Par32">Architecture primarily focuses on maintaining clear lines of command. AI should still be in charge of the tools, but they should also be able to choose for themselves. So that data is handled safely, resources should stay in the app’s area. Such an arrangement makes it easy to guide the talk since the prompts are close by. Meetings are safe and reliable because of this separation.</p><p class="Para" id="Par33">You can make events more captivating by using MCP’s advanced features. <span id="ITerm36">ResourceLink</span> can find things by reference, which makes working with big groups easy. With the completions tool, users can have new and intriguing experiences. By using server-side sampling, you can create tools that leverage the client’s language model to enhance their performance.</p><p class="Para" id="Par34">Putting <span id="ITerm37">security</span> first during implementation means that data validation and protection cannot be bypassed. All people who work with resources and tools need to follow strict entry controls and clean up their input. Such verification is critical when working with the file system or adding <span id="ITerm38">external APIs</span>, since not checking properly could lead to major security holes.</p><p class="Para" id="Par35"><span aria-label="59" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB59" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>Find out how the method works in general. To succeed with MCP, you must understand how each feature works in the original SDK. There are three main parts: Tools, Resources, and Prompts. Each one is meant to be used in different ways and follows its set of design rules. Understand these patterns thoroughly to create well-designed and manageable MCP applications.</p></section>
</div></section></div></div></body></html>