<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en" lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head><title>The MCP Standard: A Developer's Guide to Building Universal AI Tools with the Model Context Protocol</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/springer_epub.css"/></head><body><div id="book-content"><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section aria-labelledby="chaptertitle" class="ChapterInPart" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter"><div class="ChapterContextInformation"><div class="ContextInformation" id="b979-8-8688-2364-0_11"><div class="ChapterCopyright">© The Author(s), under exclusive license to APress Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature 2026</div><span class="ContextInformationAuthorEditorNames">S. Sekar</span><span class="ContextInformationBookTitles"><span class="BookTitle">The MCP Standard</span></span><span class="ChapterDOI"><a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/979-8-8688-2364-0_11">https://doi.org/10.1007/979-8-8688-2364-0_11</a></span></div></div><!--Begin Abstract--><div class="MainTitleSection"><h1 class="ChapterTitle" id="chaptertitle" lang="en">11. Server-Side Hardening: Mitigating Common Vulnerabilities</h1></div><div class="AuthorGroup"><div class="AuthorNames"><span class="Author"><span class="AuthorName">Srinivasan Sekar</span><sup><a href="#Aff2">1</a> <span class="ContactIcon"> </span></sup></span></div><div class="Affiliations"><div class="Affiliation" id="Aff2"><span class="AffiliationNumber">(1)</span><div class="AffiliationText">Bengaluru, Karnataka, India</div></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></div></div><!--End Abstract--><div class="Fulltext"><p class="Para" id="Par2"><span aria-label="175" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB175" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>It’s time to learn to build servers that can withstand these attacks by focusing on the security of our code.</p><p class="Para" id="Par3">This chapter is a practical, hands-on guide to <span id="ITerm1"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">server-side hardening</b></span>. We will focus on the most critical vulnerabilities that arise from flawed implementation logic within the server’s own tools. These are the classic bugs and anti-patterns that attackers will look for first, and we can prevent them.</p><p class="Para" id="Par4">We will look at four main types of server-side vulnerabilities to make this learning process more real. Initially, we will adopt the mindset of an attacker to comprehend the exploit. Next, we will adopt a defender’s mindset to write secure, production-ready TypeScript code that mitigates potential threats.</p><section aria-labelledby="Sec1Heading" class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec1"><h2 class="Heading" id="Sec1Heading">Vulnerability 1: Excessive Permission Scope</h2><section aria-labelledby="Sec2Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec2"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec2Heading">The Fundamental Problem</h3><div class="Para" id="Par5"><span aria-label="176" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB176" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><span id="ITerm2">Excessive permission scope</span> manifests as two distinct but related issues:<div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par6"><span id="ITerm3"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Architectural Flaw</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> The process has OS-level permissions it doesn’t need.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par7"><span id="ITerm4"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Implementation Bug</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> The code fails to constrain what the tool can do.</p></li></ul></div></div><p class="Para" id="Par8">Both must be addressed. Fixing one without the other leaves the system vulnerable.</p></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec3Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec3"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec3Heading">The Threat: The Valet with the Master Key</h3><div class="Para" id="Par9">Imagine you give a <span id="ITerm5">valet</span> the key to your car and say, “Please park my car.” You have clear, limited expectations. However, you’ve accidentally given them a master key that<div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par10">Starts the engine (intended)</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par11">Opens the glove box (contains sensitive documents) (unintended)</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par12">Opens the trunk (contains valuables) (unintended)</p></li></ul></div></div><p class="Para" id="Par13">This action unintentionally unlocks the doors of other cars in the parking lot.</p><p class="Para" id="Par14">The <span id="ITerm6">valet</span> has excessive permission.</p><div class="Para" id="Par15">In MCP servers, this manifests at two levels:<div class="OrderedList"><ol><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">1.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par16"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Code Level:</b> A tool’s description promises a single, safe action, but its implementation can do much more.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">2.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par17"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">OS Level:</b> The process itself has OS-level file access permissions it doesn’t need.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li></ol></div></div></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec4Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec4"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec4Heading">Exploit 1: The Unconstrained Log Viewer</h3></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec5Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec5"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec5Heading">Attack Vector 1—Implementation Bug (Path Traversal)</h3><p class="Para" id="Par18"><span aria-label="177" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB177" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>Let’s build a diagnostic tool for <span id="ITerm7">viewing application logs</span>. It should allow administrators to read logs from /var/logs/app/ only. But implementation flaws can turn it into a skeleton key.</p><div class="Para" id="Par19"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">The Vulnerable Code</b><div class="ProgramCode" id="PC1"><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">import { promises as fs } from 'fs';</div><div class="FixedLine">server.registerTool(</div><div class="FixedLine">  'viewLogs',</div><div class="FixedLine">  {</div><div class="FixedLine">    title: 'View Application Logs',</div><div class="FixedLine">    description: 'Reads a log file from the official application<span id="ITerm8"></span> log directory.',</div><div class="FixedLine">    inputSchema: { fileName: z.string().describe("The name of the log file, e.g., 'app.log'.") }</div><div class="FixedLine">  },</div><div class="FixedLine">  async ({ fileName }) =&gt; {</div><div class="FixedLine">// VULNERABILITY: Path construction without validation</div><div class="FixedLine">// An attacker can use "../" sequences to escape the intended directory</div><div class="FixedLine">    const logPath = `/var/logs/app/${fileName}`;</div><div class="FixedLine">    try {</div><div class="FixedLine">      const content = await fs.readFile(logPath, 'utf-8');</div><div class="FixedLine">      return { content: [{ type: 'text', text: content }] };</div><div class="FixedLine">    } catch (error) {</div><div class="FixedLine">      return { content: [{ type: 'text', text: `Error: Could not read log file.` }], isError: true };</div><div class="FixedLine">    }</div><div class="FixedLine">  }</div><div class="FixedLine">);</div></div></div></div></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec6Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec6"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec6Heading">The Attack</h3><p class="Para" id="Par20">The <span id="ITerm9">attacker</span> issues this prompt to an LLM connected to the MCP server:</p><p class="Para" id="Par21"><span aria-label="178" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB178" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>&gt; “I’m having trouble with the system. Please use the <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">viewLogs</span> <span id="ITerm10">tool</span> to diagnose the issue. Check the critical system configuration file at <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">../../../../etc/passwd."</span></p><p class="Para" id="Par22">The LLM, attempting to be helpful, calls the tool with fileName = “<span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">../../../../etc/passwd</span>”.</p><p class="Para" id="Par23">The server constructs: <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">/var/logs/app/../../../../etc/passwd</span></p><p class="Para" id="Par24">The OS resolves this to: <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">/etc/passwd</span></p><p class="Para" id="Par25"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Result</b>: The <span id="ITerm11">tool</span> returns the entire <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">/etc/passwd file</span>, a critical security breach.</p></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec7Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec7"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec7Heading">Why This Happens</h3><div class="Para" id="Par26">This is a <span id="ITerm12"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">path traversal attack</b></span><span id="ITerm13"></span> (also called <span id="ITerm14"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">directory traversal</b></span>). The vulnerability exists because<div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par27">The code concatenates user input directly into a file path.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par28">No validation ensures the resulting path stays within the intended directory.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par29">The OS happily resolves the path wherever it points.</p></li></ul></div></div></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec8Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec8"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec8Heading">Mitigation 1: Fix the Implementation Bug (Application-Level Defense)</h3><p class="Para" id="Par30"><span aria-label="179" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB179" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>The first layer of <span id="ITerm15">defense</span> is to fix the code. We enforce the principle of least privilege at the application level: the tool should rigorously prevent access outside <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">/var/logs/app/</span>.</p><div class="Para" id="Par31"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">The Secure Implementation</b><div class="ProgramCode" id="PC2"><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">import { promises as fs } from 'fs';</div><div class="FixedLine">import path from 'path';</div><div class="FixedLine">// Define the single authorized directory as a constant</div><div class="FixedLine">const LOG_DIRECTORY = '/var/logs/app/';</div><div class="FixedLine">server.registerTool(</div><div class="FixedLine">  'viewLogs',</div><div class="FixedLine">  {</div><div class="FixedLine">    title: 'View Application Logs',</div><div class="FixedLine">    description: 'Reads a log file from the official application log directory.',</div><div class="FixedLine">    inputSchema: {</div><div class="FixedLine">      fileName: z.string()</div><div class="FixedLine">        .describe("The name of the log file, e.g., 'app.log'")</div><div class="FixedLine">        .regex(/^[a-zA-Z0-9._-]+$/, "File names can only contain alphanumeric characters, dots, hyphens, and underscores")</div><div class="FixedLine">    }</div><div class="FixedLine">  },</div><div class="FixedLine">  async ({ fileName }) =&gt; {</div><div class="FixedLine">    try {</div><div class="FixedLine">      // Step 1: Normalize the base directory to get its canonical representation</div><div class="FixedLine">      // This resolves any symlinks and ".." sequences in the base directory itself</div><div class="FixedLine">      const basePath = path.resolve(LOG_DIRECTORY);</div><div class="FixedLine">      // Step 2: Safely join the base path with the user-provided filename<span id="ITerm16"></span></div><div class="FixedLine">      // path.join prevents the user from providing an absolute path like "/etc/passwd"</div><div class="FixedLine">      const userPath = path.join(basePath, fileName);</div><div class="FixedLine">      // Step 3: Normalize the final combined path</div><div class="FixedLine">      // This resolves any ".." sequences the attacker tried to include</div><div class="FixedLine">      const finalPath = path.resolve(userPath);</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">      // Step 4: THE CRUCIAL SECURITY CHECK</div><div class="FixedLine">      // Ensure the final, resolved path is still safely contained within the authorized base directory</div><div class="FixedLine">      if (!finalPath.startsWith(basePath)) {</div><div class="FixedLine">        return {</div><div class="FixedLine">          content: [{ type: 'text', text: 'Error: Access denied. Path traversal detected.' }],</div><div class="FixedLine">          isError: true</div><div class="FixedLine">        };</div><div class="FixedLine">      }</div><div class="FixedLine">      // Step 5: Additional safety check - ensure the file exists and is a regular file</div><div class="FixedLine">      const stats = await fs.stat(finalPath);</div><div class="FixedLine">      if (!stats.isFile()) {</div><div class="FixedLine">        return {</div><div class="FixedLine">          content: [{ type: 'text', text: 'Error: The requested path is not a regular file.' }],</div><div class="FixedLine">          isError: true</div><div class="FixedLine">        };</div><div class="FixedLine">      }</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">      // Step 6: Finally, read the file</div><div class="FixedLine">      const content = await fs.readFile(finalPath, 'utf-8');</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">      // Truncate very large files to prevent information<span id="ITerm17"></span> overload</div><div class="FixedLine">      const MAX_SIZE = 1024 * 100; // 100KB limit</div><div class="FixedLine">      if (content.length &gt; MAX_SIZE) {</div><div class="FixedLine">        return {</div><div class="FixedLine">          content: [{</div><div class="FixedLine">            type: 'text',</div><div class="FixedLine">            text: `[Log file truncated. Showing first 100KB]\n\n${content.substring(0, MAX_SIZE)}`</div><div class="FixedLine">          }],</div><div class="FixedLine">        };</div><div class="FixedLine">      }</div><div class="FixedLine">      return { content: [{ type: 'text', text: content }] };</div><div class="FixedLine">    } catch (error) {</div><div class="FixedLine">      // Log the error securely (don't expose file paths to the LLM)</div><div class="FixedLine">      console.error(`[MCP] Log access error: ${error instanceof Error ? error.message : 'Unknown error'}`);</div><div class="FixedLine">      return {</div><div class="FixedLine">        content: [{ type: 'text', text: 'Error: Could not read the requested log file.' }],</div><div class="FixedLine">        isError: true</div><div class="FixedLine">      };</div><div class="FixedLine">    }</div><div class="FixedLine">  }</div><div class="FixedLine">);</div></div></div></div></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec9Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec9"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec9Heading">Why This Works</h3><div class="Para" id="Par32"><div class="OrderedList"><ol><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">1.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par33"><span aria-label="182" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB182" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><span id="ITerm18"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Input Validation</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> The regex restricts file names to safe characters.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">2.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par34"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Path Normalization</b><span id="ITerm19"></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> <span id="ITerm20"><span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">path.resolve()</span></span> converts any “..” sequences into their canonical form.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">3.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par35"><span id="ITerm21"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Boundary Check</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> <span id="ITerm22"><span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">startsWith()</span></span> ensures the final path is within the allowed directory.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">4.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par36"><span id="ITerm23"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Type Check</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> We verify it’s a regular file, not a directory or <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">symlink</span>.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">5.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par37"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Size Limit:</b> Prevents the LLM from retrieving enormous files.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li></ol></div></div><div class="Para" id="Par38"><span id="ITerm24"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Test Attack</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> If an attacker sends “<span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">../../../../etc/passwd</span>”:<div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par39"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Step 2</b>: <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">/var/logs/app/../../../../etc/passwd</span> (user input concatenated)</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par40"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Step 3</b>: <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">/etc/passwd</span> (normalized)</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par41"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Step 4</b>: Check – Does <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">/etc/passwd.startsWith(/var/logs/app/)</span>? NO</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par42"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Result</b>: Access denied ✓</p></li></ul></div></div><p class="Para" id="Par43">However, this layer protects against this specific bug. But what if there’s another code vulnerability we haven’t discovered yet? What if an attacker finds a different attack vector? The process still has OS-level permission to read <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">/etc/passwd.</span></p></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec10Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec10"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec10Heading">The Hidden Problem: Architectural Flaw</h3><p class="Para" id="Par44"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Important Distinction</b><span id="ITerm25"></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> Fixing the code does NOT fix the underlying architectural flaw.</p><div class="Para" id="Par45"><span aria-label="183" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB183" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>After our secure code fix:<div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par46">The <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">viewLogs</span> <span id="ITerm26">tool</span> cannot read <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">/etc/passwd</span> through path traversal.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par47">Attackers cannot exploit this vulnerability in the <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">viewLogs</span> <span id="ITerm27">tool</span>.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par48">But the Node.js process still has OS-level permission to read <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">/etc/passwd</span>.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par49">If a different bug exists (SQL injection, template injection, etc.), attackers can still access it.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par50">If an attacker compromises a different tool, they can access it.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par51">If we have a code injection vulnerability, attackers can run arbitrary code with full process permissions.</p></li></ul></div></div><p class="Para ParaOneEmphasisChild" id="Par52"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">This is a fundamental principle:</b></p><p class="Para" id="Par53">The perfect implementation of inadequate privileges is still insufficient.</p><p class="Para" id="Par54">A secure <span id="ITerm28">code</span> base cannot compensate for excessive process permissions. Even with perfect code, a single zero-day vulnerability gives attackers access to everything the process can reach.</p></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec11Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec11"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec11Heading">Mitigation 2: Fix the Architectural Flaw (Operating System-Level Defense)</h3><p class="Para" id="Par55"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">The</b> <span id="ITerm29"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">architectural flaw</b></span><span id="ITerm30"></span><span id="ITerm31"></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> The Node.js process has OS-level permission to read <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">/etc/passwd</span> even after we fix the code.</p><p class="Para" id="Par56">Fix this by ensuring the process cannot access restricted files, regardless of which code bugs exist.</p></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec12Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec12"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec12Heading">Dockerfile (Minimal Hardening)</h3><div class="Para" id="Par57"><div class="ProgramCode" id="PC3"><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">FROM node:18-alpine<span id="ITerm32"></span></div><div class="FixedLine">WORKDIR /app</div><div class="FixedLine">COPY package*.json ./</div><div class="FixedLine">RUN npm ci --only=production</div><div class="FixedLine">COPY . .</div><div class="FixedLine">USER 1000:1000</div><div class="FixedLine">CMD ["node", "mcp-server.js"]</div></div></div></div></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec13Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec13"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec13Heading">Docker Compose (Where the Security Happens)</h3><div class="Para" id="Par58"><div class="ProgramCode" id="PC4"><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">services<span id="ITerm33"></span>:</div><div class="FixedLine">  mcp-server:</div><div class="FixedLine">    build: .</div><div class="FixedLine">    ports:</div><div class="FixedLine">      - "127.0.0.1:3000:3000"</div><div class="FixedLine">    security_opt:</div><div class="FixedLine">      - no-new-privileges:true</div><div class="FixedLine">    cap_drop:</div><div class="FixedLine">      - ALL</div><div class="FixedLine">    read_only: true</div><div class="FixedLine">    tmpfs:</div><div class="FixedLine">      - /tmp:rw,noexec,nosuid,size=10m</div><div class="FixedLine">    mem_limit: 256m</div><div class="FixedLine">    cpus: '0.5'</div></div></div></div></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec14Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec14"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec14Heading">What This Does</h3><div class="Para" id="Par59"><div class="Table" id="Taba"><table class="TableStyle5"><colgroup><col class="tcol1 align-left"/><col class="tcol2 align-left"/></colgroup><thead><tr><th class="TableStyle1" scope="col"><p class="SimplePara"><span aria-label="185" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB185" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>Line</p></th><th class="TableStyle2" scope="col"><p class="SimplePara">What It Stops</p></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><th class="TableStyle1" scope="row"><p class="SimplePara">USER 1000:1000</p></th><td class="TableStyle2"><p class="SimplePara">Process cannot access <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">/root</span> or <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">/etc/shadow</span></p></td></tr><tr><th class="TableStyle1" scope="row"><p class="SimplePara">cap_drop: ALL</p></th><td class="TableStyle2"><p class="SimplePara">Process cannot read files, even with vulnerabilities</p></td></tr><tr><th class="TableStyle1" scope="row"><p class="SimplePara">read_only: true</p></th><td class="TableStyle2"><p class="SimplePara">Process cannot write malware or modify config</p></td></tr><tr><th class="TableStyle1" scope="row"><p class="SimplePara">no-new-privileges</p></th><td class="TableStyle2"><p class="SimplePara">Process cannot escalate privileges</p></td></tr><tr><th class="TableStyle3" scope="row"><p class="SimplePara">mem_limit: 256m</p></th><td class="TableStyle4"><p class="SimplePara">Denial of Wallet attacks limited</p></td></tr></tbody></table></div></div></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec15Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec15"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec15Heading">Proof It Works</h3><div class="Para" id="Par60">Inside the <span id="ITerm34">container</span>, the following operation fails even though the code might allow it:<div class="ProgramCode" id="PC5"><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">bash</div><div class="FixedLine"># Inside container</div><div class="FixedLine">cat /etc/passwd</div><div class="FixedLine"># Result: Permission denied (even if code tries to read it)</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine"># Verify</div><div class="FixedLine">id</div><div class="FixedLine"># Result: uid=1000 (non-root, cannot read /etc/passwd)</div></div></div></div><p class="Para" id="Par61"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Key Point:</b> After Mitigation 1, if an attacker finds a different bug, the process still cannot access restricted files. This is why both layers matter.</p></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec16Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec16"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec16Heading">Why Both Mitigations Are Required</h3><div class="Para" id="Par62"><div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par63"><span aria-label="186" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB186" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><span id="ITerm35"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Mitigation</b></span> <b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">1 (Code)</b>: Prevents THIS tool from being exploited</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par64"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Mitigation 2 (OS)</b>: Prevents ANY OTHER tool or code path from accessing restricted files</p><p class="Para" id="Par65">Together = Production-ready hardening.</p></li></ul></div></div></section>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec17Heading" class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec17"><h2 class="Heading" id="Sec17Heading">Vulnerability 2: Malicious Code Execution</h2><p class="Para" id="Par66">This is one of the most severe vulnerabilities a server can have. It allows an attacker to move from stealing data to taking complete control of the server itself.</p><section aria-labelledby="Sec18Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec18"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec18Heading">The Threat: The Unsandboxed Playground</h3><p class="Para" id="Par67">Imagine a children’s <span id="ITerm36">playground</span><span id="ITerm37"></span> built right next to a busy highway, with no fence. The playground is intended for safe activities, but because there is no boundary (a “sandbox”), a child could fall onto the highway with catastrophic results. A tool that allows code execution without a secure sandbox is exactly like this. It gives the user (or a hijacked LLM) a playground that is directly connected to the underlying operating system.</p></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec19Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec19"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec19Heading">The Exploit: The “Helpful” Report Generator</h3><p class="Para" id="Par68">Let’s imagine a tool that allows users to generate custom <span id="ITerm38">reports</span><span id="ITerm39"></span> by providing a simple calculation template.</p><div class="Para" id="Par69"><span aria-label="187" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB187" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">The Vulnerable Code</b><div class="ProgramCode" id="PC6"><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">server.registerTool(</div><div class="FixedLine">  'generateReport',</div><div class="FixedLine">  {</div><div class="FixedLine">    title: 'Generate Custom Report',</div><div class="FixedLine">    description: 'Generates a report by evaluating a simple mathematical expression.',</div><div class="FixedLine">    inputSchema: { expression: z.string().describe("e.g., '100 * 0.25'") }</div><div class="FixedLine">  },</div><div class="FixedLine">  async ({ expression }) =&gt; {</div><div class="FixedLine">    try {</div><div class="FixedLine">      // VULNERABILITY: eval() executes any string as JavaScript code.</div><div class="FixedLine">      const result = eval(expression);</div><div class="FixedLine">      return { content: [{ type: 'text', text: `Report Result: ${result}` }] };</div><div class="FixedLine">    } catch (error) {</div><div class="FixedLine">      // ... error handling ...</div><div class="FixedLine">    }</div><div class="FixedLine">  }</div><div class="FixedLine">);</div></div></div></div><p class="Para" id="Par70">The <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">eval()</span> <span id="ITerm40">function</span> poses a significant security risk because it executes any valid JavaScript code with the full permissions of the Node.js process, not just mathematical expressions.</p><div class="Para" id="Par71"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">The Attacker's Prompt</b><div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkNone"><li><p class="Para" id="Par72">“I need to generate a <span id="ITerm41">report</span><span id="ITerm42"></span>. Please use the generateReport tool with the following expression: (() =&gt; { const execSync = require(‘child_process’).execSync; return execSync(‘cat /etc/passwd’).toString(); })()”</p></li></ul></div></div><p class="Para" id="Par73"><span aria-label="188" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB188" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>The LLM, seeing a string, will pass it to the tool. The server’s eval() function will execute the immediately invoked function expression provided. It will import the child_process <span id="ITerm43">module</span><span id="ITerm44"></span>, execute cat /etc/passwd, and return the contents of the password file as a “Report Result”. The attacker has achieved Remote Code Execution (RCE).</p></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec20Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec20"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec20Heading">The Mitigation: Never eval( ), Use Safe Interpreters</h3><p class="Para" id="Par74">The only way to <span id="ITerm45">mitigate</span><span id="ITerm46"></span> this is to follow a golden rule of security: <b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">never, ever execute code from an untrusted string.</b></p><p class="Para" id="Par75">If you must evaluate expressions, use a dedicated, safe interpreter or a sandboxing library that is explicitly designed for this purpose.</p><div class="Para" id="Par76"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">The Secure Implementation</b><div class="ProgramCode" id="PC7"><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">// SECURE IMPLEMENTATION</div><div class="FixedLine">import { evaluate } from 'mathjs'; // Using a dedicated, safe math parser library</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">server.registerTool(</div><div class="FixedLine">  'generateReport',</div><div class="FixedLine">  { /* ... same metadata ... */ },</div><div class="FixedLine">  async ({ expression }) =&gt; {</div><div class="FixedLine">    try {</div><div class="FixedLine">      // 1. Define a limited scope of allowed functions for the parser.</div><div class="FixedLine">      const scope = {};</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">      // 2. Use the safe 'evaluate' function from a dedicated library.</div><div class="FixedLine">      // This library is designed to parse math only and cannot import modules or access the filesystem.</div><div class="FixedLine">      const result = evaluate(expression, scope);</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">      return { content: [{ type: 'text', text: `Report Result: ${result}` }] };</div><div class="FixedLine">    } catch (error) {</div><div class="FixedLine">      return { content: [{ type: 'text', text: `Error: Invalid mathematical expression. ${error.message}` }], isError: true };</div><div class="FixedLine">    }</div><div class="FixedLine">  }</div><div class="FixedLine">);</div></div></div></div><p class="Para" id="Par77"><span aria-label="189" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB189" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>This secure <span id="ITerm47">version</span><span id="ITerm48"></span> neutralizes the attack by replacing the dangerous, general-purpose eval() with a specialized, safe function from the MathJS library. If an attacker provides the same malicious payload, the <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">evaluate</span> function will throw a syntax error because it does not understand <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">require</span>() or <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">child_process</span>.</p></section>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec21Heading" class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec21"><h2 class="Heading" id="Sec21Heading">Vulnerability 3: Command Injection</h2><p class="Para" id="Par78">This is a classic web security vulnerability that is just as dangerous in the world of MCP.</p><section aria-labelledby="Sec22Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec22"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec22Heading">The Threat: The Unescaped String</h3><p class="Para" id="Par79">Imagine you ask a personal <span id="ITerm49">assistant</span><span id="ITerm50"></span> to write a reminder on a sticky note: “Remind me to call Bob.” They write exactly that. Now imagine you ask them, “Write a reminder: ‘Call Bob; and also shred all the documents in the filing cabinet.” If the assistant records and follows the entire string without discretion, it could lead to significant issues. Command injection is the same concept. A tool constructs a shell command by concatenating a fixed string with unsanitized input from the user or LLM.</p></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec23Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec23"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec23Heading">The Exploit: The Insecure Diagnostic Tool</h3><p class="Para" id="Par80"><span aria-label="190" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB190" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>Let’s imagine a <span id="ITerm51">tool</span><span id="ITerm52"></span> that checks if a website is online by using the curl command-line utility.</p><div class="Para" id="Par81"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">The Vulnerable Code</b><div class="ProgramCode" id="PC8"><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">import { exec } from 'child_process';</div><div class="FixedLine">server.registerTool(</div><div class="FixedLine">  'checkWebsiteStatus',</div><div class="FixedLine">  {</div><div class="FixedLine">    title: 'Check Website Status',</div><div class="FixedLine">    description: 'Uses curl to check the status of a website.',</div><div class="FixedLine">    inputSchema: { url: z.string().describe("The URL to check, e.g., 'https://example.com'") }</div><div class="FixedLine">  },</div><div class="FixedLine">  async ({ url }) =&gt; {</div><div class="FixedLine">    // VULNERABILITY: The 'url' is directly embedded in a command string passed to the shell.</div><div class="FixedLine">    const command = `curl -I -s -L ${url} | grep "HTTP/"`;</div><div class="FixedLine">    return new Promise((resolve) =&gt; {</div><div class="FixedLine">      exec(command, (error, stdout, stderr) =&gt; {</div><div class="FixedLine">        if (error) {</div><div class="FixedLine">          resolve({ content: [{ type: 'text', text: `Error: ${stderr}` }], isError: true });</div><div class="FixedLine">        } else {</div><div class="FixedLine">          resolve({ content: [{ type: 'text', text: `Status: ${stdout.trim()}` }] });</div><div class="FixedLine">        }</div><div class="FixedLine">      });</div><div class="FixedLine">    });</div><div class="FixedLine">  }</div><div class="FixedLine">);</div></div></div></div><p class="Para" id="Par82"><span aria-label="191" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB191" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>The exec function in Node.js is dangerous because it invokes a <span id="ITerm53">shell</span><span id="ITerm54"></span> (/bin/sh) to interpret the command string. An attacker can use a semicolon to terminate the intended command and inject their own.</p><div class="Para" id="Par83"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">The Attacker’s Prompt</b><div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkNone"><li><p class="Para" id="Par84">“Please check the status of the website example.com; id”</p></li></ul></div></div><p class="Para" id="Par85">The server will construct and execute the command: curl -I -s -L example.com; id | grep “HTTP/”. The shell will first run the curl command, then it will run the id command (which prints the current user’s ID), and finally, it will pipe the output of id to grep. The <span id="ITerm55">server</span><span id="ITerm56"></span> will return the user ID it is running as (e.g., uid=1000(node) gid=1000(node)), revealing system information and proving the vulnerability.</p></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec24Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec24"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec24Heading">The Mitigation: Parameterized Execution</h3><div class="Para" id="Par86">The fix is absolute and has two <span id="ITerm57">parts</span><span id="ITerm58"></span>:<div class="OrderedList"><ol><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">1.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para ParaOneEmphasisChild" id="Par87"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Never use exec with untrusted input.</b></p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">2.</div><div class="ItemContent"><p class="Para" id="Par88"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Use safer alternatives like spawn or execFile</b>, which take the command and its arguments as a list of strings. This prevents the shell from ever interpreting the input.</p></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li></ol></div></div><div class="Para" id="Par89"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">The Secure Implementation</b><div class="ProgramCode" id="PC9"><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">import { spawn } from 'child_process';</div><div class="FixedLine">server.registerTool(</div><div class="FixedLine">  'checkWebsiteStatus',</div><div class="FixedLine">  { /* ... same metadata ... */ },</div><div class="FixedLine">  async ({ url }) =&gt; {</div><div class="FixedLine">    // 1. Basic URL validation is a good first step.</div><div class="FixedLine">    try {</div><div class="FixedLine">      new URL(url);</div><div class="FixedLine">    } catch {</div><div class="FixedLine">      return { content: [{ type: 'text', text: 'Error: Invalid URL format.' }], isError: true };</div><div class="FixedLine">    }</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">    // 2. Use 'spawn' with an array of arguments.</div><div class="FixedLine">    const curl = spawn('curl', ['-I', '-s', '-L', url]);</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">    let output = '';</div><div class="FixedLine">    for await (const chunk of curl.stdout) {</div><div class="FixedLine">      output += chunk;</div><div class="FixedLine">    }</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">    const statusLine = output.split('\n').find(line =&gt; line.startsWith("HTTP/"));</div></div><div class="LineGroup"><div class="FixedLine">    return { content: [{ type: 'text', text: `Status: ${statusLine || 'Not found'}` }] };</div><div class="FixedLine">  }</div><div class="FixedLine">);</div></div></div></div><p class="Para" id="Par90"><span aria-label="192" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB192" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>This secure version is immune to command injection. If an attacker provides the input example.com; id, the URL argument passed to curl is the entire, literal <span id="ITerm59">string</span><span id="ITerm60"></span>. curl will safely fail, unable to resolve a hostname named “example.com; id”, and the id command will never be executed.</p></section>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec25Heading" class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec25"><h2 class="Heading" id="Sec25Heading">Chapter Summary</h2><p class="Para" id="Par91">This chapter transitioned from theoretical discussions to a practical defense for our MCP server. We focused on identifying, exploiting, and, most importantly, mitigating three critical classes of server-side <span aria-label="193" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB193" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>vulnerabilities. We demonstrated how excessive permission scope can be overcome by adhering to the principle of least privilege and implementing robust path validation. We also established that the severe risk of malicious code execution is only manageable by avoiding hazardous patterns like eval() and deploying secure, specialized interpreters. Finally, we analyzed the common threat of command injection and outlined the definitive defense: never using a shell to execute commands with user input and always supplying arguments as a parameterized list. Hardening your server is an essential phase in the development lifecycle, and you are now equipped with the foundational methods to safeguard your applications from these frequent and dangerous attacks.</p></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec26Heading" class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec26"><h2 class="Heading" id="Sec26Heading">Key Takeaways</h2><div class="Para" id="Par92"><div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par93"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Enforce the Principle of Least Privilege:</b> Your tools should only have the absolute minimum permissions required to function. Validate and constrain all access to file systems and other resources.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par94"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Never Trust LLM-Generated Code:</b> Treat any code or command string generated by an LLM with the same suspicion as direct user input. Never execute it in an unsandboxed environment.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par95"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Avoid Shell Execution with User Input:</b> When calling subprocesses, always use functions like spawn or execFile that take arguments as an array. This is the single most effective defense against command injection.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par96"><span aria-label="194" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB194" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Validate, Sanitize, and Constrain:</b> Apply rigorous validation to all inputs received by your tools. Check for expected formats, lengths, and character sets to reduce the attack surface.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par97"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Think Like an Attacker:</b> To build a secure server, you must first anticipate how an attacker would try to break it.</p></li></ul></div></div></section>
</div></section></div></div></body></html>