<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en" lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head><title>The MCP Standard: A Developer's Guide to Building Universal AI Tools with the Model Context Protocol</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/springer_epub.css"/></head><body><div id="book-content"><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section aria-labelledby="chaptertitle" class="ChapterInPart" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter"><div class="ChapterContextInformation"><div class="ContextInformation" id="b979-8-8688-2364-0_15"><div class="ChapterCopyright">© The Author(s), under exclusive license to APress Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature 2026</div><span class="ContextInformationAuthorEditorNames">S. Sekar</span><span class="ContextInformationBookTitles"><span class="BookTitle">The MCP Standard</span></span><span class="ChapterDOI"><a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/979-8-8688-2364-0_15">https://doi.org/10.1007/979-8-8688-2364-0_15</a></span></div></div><!--Begin Abstract--><div class="MainTitleSection"><h1 class="ChapterTitle" id="chaptertitle" lang="en">15. Navigating the Ecosystem: Servers, Clients, and Registries</h1></div><div class="AuthorGroup"><div class="AuthorNames"><span class="Author"><span class="AuthorName">Srinivasan Sekar</span><sup><a href="#Aff2">1</a> <span class="ContactIcon"> </span></sup></span></div><div class="Affiliations"><div class="Affiliation" id="Aff2"><span class="AffiliationNumber">(1)</span><div class="AffiliationText">Bengaluru, Karnataka, India</div></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></div></div><!--End Abstract--><div class="Fulltext"><p class="Para" id="Par2"><span aria-label="241" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB241" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>Throughout this book, we have journeyed from the chaos of proprietary APIs to the order of a universal standard. We have learnt the architecture, mastered the language, and built and secured a complete MCP application. We have treated MCP as a technology. In this final chapter, we will look at it as something more: the foundation of a new ecosystem. A standard’s true power is not just in its specification but in the vibrant community and the vast, interconnected network of compatible tools that grows around it.</p><p class="Para" id="Par3">This chapter is your guide to this new world. We will explore the official <b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">MCP Registry</b>, which acts as the central nervous system for discovery. We will take a comprehensive tour of the sprawling landscape of thousands of open source and commercial servers. And, just as importantly, we will survey the innovative MCP hosts and clients that bring these powerful capabilities to life for end users. This is the world you are now equipped to build for and participate in.</p><section aria-labelledby="Sec1Heading" class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec1"><h2 class="Heading" id="Sec1Heading">The Server Landscape and the Rise of Registries</h2><p class="Para" id="Par4"><span aria-label="242" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB242" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>Initially, finding new servers within the MCP ecosystem was a manual and informal process. Developers depended on word-of-mouth, social media, and community-maintained resources such as the “Awesome MCP Servers” GitHub repository. Although these grassroots initiatives were highly valuable, they lacked a central, programmatic, and reliable method for clients to acquire and incorporate new tools. This “discovery problem” was the primary obstacle hindering the ecosystem’s expansion.</p><p class="Para" id="Par5">In a collaborative initiative, maintainers from prominent organizations like <span id="ITerm1">Anthropic and GitHub</span> spearheaded the launch of the official <b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">MCP Registry</b>. This effort by the MCP community aims to address existing challenges within the ecosystem.</p><section aria-labelledby="Sec2Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec2"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec2Heading">The Official MCP Registry: An App Store for AI Tools</h3><p class="Para" id="Par6">The MCP Registry (registry.modelcontextprotocol.io) serves as the singular, authoritative source for all public MCP <span id="ITerm2">servers</span>. It functions like an “app store” for AI agent capabilities, simplifying the process of expanding an agent’s skills from a complex engineering effort to a straightforward discovery and installation task.</p><p class="Para" id="Par7"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">The Architecture of Discovery</b><span id="ITerm3"></span></p><div class="Para" id="Par8">The registry is not just a website; it is a public API built on an open OpenAPI specification. This design choice is crucial.<div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par9"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">For Server Maintainers:</b> A developer who creates a public MCP server can publish it to the registry using a simple command-line tool, the <span id="ITerm4"><span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">mcp-publisher</span></span>. This process is designed to be secure and verifiable. It involves authenticating (e.g., with a GitHub account <span aria-label="243" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB243" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>to prove ownership of a namespace like <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">io.github.yourname</span>) and submitting a <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">server.json</span> manifest file. This manifest contains all the essential metadata: the server’s name, a human-readable description, keywords, and, most importantly, the instructions on how a client can run or connect to it.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par10"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">For Client Developers:</b> A <span id="ITerm5">Host application</span> (like an IDE or a chatbot) can now programmatically query the registry’s API. It can search for servers by keyword (“database”), category (“finance”), or author. This allows a Host to build a rich, searchable “marketplace” UI directly into its application. A user can browse, <span id="ITerm6">discover</span>, and, with a single click, install a new MCP server, with the Host automatically handling the configuration.</p></li></ul></div></div><p class="Para" id="Par11"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">The Power of a</b> <span id="ITerm7"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Federated Model</b></span></p><div class="Para" id="Par12">The <span id="ITerm8">official registry</span> serves as a foundational layer, rather than a restrictive system. Its crucial design allows for the establishment of <span id="ITerm9"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">sub-registries</b></span>, which are vital for its widespread adoption within both the open source community and large enterprises.<div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par13"><span id="ITerm10"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Public Sub-registries</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> A community-driven platform like <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">mcp.so</span> or <span class="EmphasisFontCategoryNonProportional ">glama.ai</span><span id="ITerm11"></span> can pull data from the official registry and present it in their own curated, opinionated marketplace. Users could enhance the discovery experience by contributing to their reviews, security ratings, or tutorials.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par14"><span id="ITerm12"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Private Sub-registries</b></span><span id="ITerm13"></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> A large enterprise with strict security and privacy requirements can create a private, internal-only registry that is completely firewalled from the public internet. This allows them to have a central, <span aria-label="244" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB244" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>secure catalogue of all their internal MCP servers, giving their developers a single place to discover and integrate trusted, company-approved tools.</p></li></ul></div></div><p class="Para" id="Par15">This <span id="ITerm14">federated model</span> offers an optimal balance: a central, open standard for public access, coupled with adaptability for private, secure deployment within organizations.</p></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec3Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec3"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec3Heading">A Tour of the Server Ecosystem</h3><p class="Para" id="Par16">The MCP Registry and community lists catalogue thousands of servers, covering virtually every domain of software development and beyond. While we cannot list them all, understanding the major categories can inspire your projects and demonstrate the sheer breadth of what is now possible.</p><div class="Para" id="Par17">Let’s explore some of these key categories in more detail.<div class="OrderedList"><ol><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">1.</div><div class="ItemContent"><div class="Para" id="Par18"><span id="ITerm15"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Knowledge and Memory</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> These servers give agents memory, allowing them to persist information across conversations.<div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par19"><span id="ITerm16"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Zep’s Graphiti</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> An open source server that provides long-term memory using a knowledge graph. It can automatically extract entities (people, places, concepts) and their relationships from conversations and store them for later retrieval. This is crucial for building agents that can learn and remember user preferences, project details, and past interactions.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par20"><span id="ITerm17"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">RAG Platforms (Ragie, Vectara)</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> These RAG-as-a-Service platforms expose their powerful document ingestion and retrieval capabilities through simple MCP <span id="ITerm18">servers</span>, allowing developers to easily ground their agents in custom knowledge bases.</p></li></ul></div></div></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">2.</div><div class="ItemContent"><div class="Para" id="Par21"><span aria-label="245" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB245" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><span id="ITerm19"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Developer Tools</b></span> <b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">and</b> <span id="ITerm20"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Code Execution</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> This is one of the largest and most active categories, turning the AI assistant into a true pair programmer.<div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par22"><span id="ITerm21"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Code Execution</b></span> <b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">(Jupyter, E2B):</b> Servers that provide secure, sandboxed environments for executing code. The <span id="ITerm22">Jupyter MCP server</span> allows an agent to write and run code in a notebook, see the output of cells, and even generate plots. <span id="ITerm23">E2B</span> provides secure cloud-based sandboxes for running more complex codes.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par23"><span id="ITerm24"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Version Control (GitHub, GitLab)</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> Official and community-built servers that provide tools to read issues, create pull requests, analyze repository contents, and interact with CI/CD pipelines.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par24"><span id="ITerm25"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Cloud Platforms (AWS, Cloudflare, Vercel)</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> Servers that allow agents to interact with and manage cloud infrastructure, such as deploying a serverless <span id="ITerm26">function</span>, checking the status of a database, or managing DNS records.</p></li></ul></div></div></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">3.</div><div class="ItemContent"><div class="Para" id="Par25"><span id="ITerm27"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Database and Data Platform Access</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> These servers act as universal translators for data.<div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par26"><span id="ITerm28"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">MindsDB</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> A powerful open source platform that can connect to dozens of different data sources (from PostgreSQL and CockroachDB to Salesforce and Slack) and expose them all through a single, unified MCP server that can be queried with natural language.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par27"><span aria-label="246" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB246" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Dedicated Database Servers (Qdrant, Weaviate, Neon, Supabase):</b> MCP servers are widely available for nearly every popular database, from traditional SQL to modern vector <span id="ITerm29">databases</span>. This makes it easy to grant secure data access to an agent.</p></li></ul></div></div></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">4.</div><div class="ItemContent"><div class="Para" id="Par28"><span id="ITerm30"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Web Access and Automation</b></span><span id="ITerm31"></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> These servers are the agent’s eyes and hands on the internet.<div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par29"><span id="ITerm32"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Browser Automation (Playwright, Puppeteer)</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> Servers can integrate with libraries such as <span id="ITerm33">Playwright</span> and <span id="ITerm34">Puppeteer</span>, enabling an agent to control local or remote browsers. This functionality allows for tasks like filling out forms, clicking buttons, and extracting data from dynamic, JavaScript-heavy websites.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par30"><span id="ITerm35"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Web Scraping Services (Bright Data, Firecrawl)</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> For large web scraping projects, commercial services provide MCP servers that help get around issues like IP blocks, CAPTCHAs, and managing headless browser setups.</p></li></ul></div></div></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li><li class="ListItem"><div class="ItemNumber">5.</div><div class="ItemContent"><div class="Para" id="Par31"><span id="ITerm36"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Workplace and Productivity</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> These servers connect agents to the tools that knowledge workers use every day.<div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par32"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Project Management (Asana, Jira, Linear):</b> Servers that allow an agent to create, update, and search for tasks and issues</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par33"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Communication (Slack, Discord, Gmail):</b> Servers that enable an agent to read messages, summarize channels, and even draft replies</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par34"><span aria-label="247" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB247" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Knowledge Management (Notion, Confluence):</b> Servers that allow an <span id="ITerm37">agent</span> to search and retrieve information from a company’s internal wiki or knowledge base</p></li></ul></div></div></div><div class="ClearBoth"> </div></li></ol></div></div><p class="Para" id="Par35">This represents a small segment of a rapidly expanding landscape. The presence of these specialized servers enables developers to develop exceptionally powerful agents by integrating existing tools, eliminating the need to build everything from the ground up.</p></section>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec4Heading" class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec4"><h2 class="Heading" id="Sec4Heading">The Host and Client Landscape: Where the Magic Happens</h2><p class="Para" id="Par36">A rich ecosystem of servers is only useful if there are powerful clients and hosts to consume them. The MCP Host is the user-facing application – the environment where the developer or user interacts with the AI. The growth in this area has been just as explosive as on the server side.</p><p class="Para" id="Par37">Let’s explore some of the most popular and innovative MCP hosts.</p><section aria-labelledby="Sec5Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec5"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec5Heading">1. The AI-Powered IDEs: The Developer’s Cockpit</h3><div class="Para" id="Par38">This is the most mature category of MCP <span id="ITerm38">hosts</span>. These are code editors that have deeply integrated AI assistants, and they use MCP as the primary mechanism for allowing those assistants to interact with the developer’s environment and external tools.<div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par39"><span id="ITerm39"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Cursor</b></span><span id="ITerm40"></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> One of the earliest and most prominent adopters of MCP. Cursor is an AI-first code editor that uses its MCP client to connect to a wide range of servers for tasks like file system access, web search, and documentation retrieval. Its built-in MCP server <span aria-label="248" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB248" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>management UI, which directly reads an mcp.json file, makes it incredibly easy for developers to add and configure new tools.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par40"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Cline:</b> A powerful VS Code extension that turns the world’s most popular editor into a sophisticated MCP host. <span id="ITerm41">Cline</span><span id="ITerm42"></span> allows developers to connect their AI agent to local and remote servers directly within their familiar VS Code environment.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par41"><span id="ITerm43"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Windsurf</b></span><span id="ITerm44"></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> An AI-powered code editor built on the foundation of VS <span id="ITerm45">Code</span>. It has strong support for MCP, allowing developers to easily connect their coding assistant to custom tools and data sources, effectively extending the capabilities of their editor on the fly.</p></li><li><div class="Para" id="Par42"><span id="ITerm46"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Roo Code</b></span><span id="ITerm47"></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> This AI-powered autonomous coding agent, integrated into your editor, offers a range of capabilities:<div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par43">Natural language communication</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par44">Direct file manipulation (reading and writing) within your workspace</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par45">Execution of terminal commands</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par46">Automating browser actions</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par47">Integration with OpenAI-compatible or custom APIs/models</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par48"><span id="ITerm48">Custom</span> modes allow for the customization of both “personality” and capabilities</p></li></ul></div></div></li></ul></div></div></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec6Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec6"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec6Heading">2. The Conversational Powerhouses: Desktop Agents</h3><div class="Para" id="Par49"><span aria-label="249" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB249" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>These <span id="ITerm49">applications</span><span id="ITerm50"></span> focus on providing an AI-rich, multimodal chat experience, and they use MCP to give their agents superpowers.<div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par50"><span id="ITerm51"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Claude Desktop</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> Anthropic’s official desktop application, from the creators of MCP, offers native, first-class support for the protocol. This enables users to connect Claude with a wide range of tools for various functions, including memory and database access. Its developer-friendly configuration makes it an ideal platform for testing and developing new servers.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par51"><span id="ITerm52"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Block’s Goose</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> An innovative project from Block (formerly Square) that showcases a highly capable, multimodal AI assistant. Goose is a prime example of how a large enterprise can use MCP to build a powerful, customized internal <span id="ITerm53">agent</span><span id="ITerm54"></span> that integrates deeply with its own services and infrastructure, like its financial and payment APIs.</p></li></ul></div></div></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec7Heading" class="Section2 RenderAsSection2" id="Sec7"><h3 class="Heading" id="Sec7Heading">3. The Headless and Terminal Clients: For the Power User</h3><div class="Para" id="Par52">Not all clients require a graphical user <span id="ITerm55">interface</span>. A growing number of tools are emerging for developers who live in the terminal.<div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par53"><span id="ITerm56"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Claude Code</b></span> is an agentic coding tool that lives in your terminal, understands your code base, and helps you code faster by executing routine tasks, explaining complex code, and handling Git workflows – all through natural language commands.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par54"><span aria-label="250" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB250" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><span id="ITerm57"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Gemini CLI</b></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">:</b> The open source command-line agent from Google. While not exclusively an MCP client, its architecture is perfectly suited for MCP integration. It can be configured to use an MCP client as its tool provider, allowing developers to bring the power of Gemini and a universe of MCP <span id="ITerm58">tools</span> directly into their shell scripts and terminal workflows.</p></li></ul></div></div><p class="Para" id="Par55">MCP’s success is shown by the wide range of Host applications available. The protocol has made it possible for a single, well-built server, like our SQLite Explorer, to work with a wide range of user-facing applications right away.</p></section>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec8Heading" class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec8"><h2 class="Heading" id="Sec8Heading">Chapter Summary</h2><p class="Para" id="Par56">In this chapter, we took a step back from the specifics of how one application works to look at the huge and quickly growing MCP ecosystem. We recognized the essential requirement for a centralized discovery mechanism and observed that the official <span id="ITerm59">MCP Registry</span> fulfils this function by serving as a secure, open “app store” for AI capabilities. We learnt that thousands of servers can do things for every possible domain and that a wide range of Host applications, from <span id="ITerm60">AI-powered IDEs</span> like Cursor and Cline to conversational agents like Claude Desktop, are making it easy for people to use those capabilities. This flourishing, two-sided ecosystem is the ultimate fulfilment of MCP’s promise: a world where powerful AI capabilities can be easily found, shared, and combined, speeding up the pace of innovation for everyone.</p></section>
<section aria-labelledby="Sec9Heading" class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec9"><h2 class="Heading" id="Sec9Heading">Key Takeaways</h2><div class="Para" id="Par57"><div class="UnorderedList"><ul class="UnorderedListMarkBullet"><li><p class="Para" id="Par58"><span aria-label="251" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB251" role="doc-pagebreak"></span><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">There Are Two Sides to the Ecosystem:</b> A healthy ecosystem needs many different servers (capability providers) and many different clients/hosts (capability consumers).</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par59"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">Discovery Is a Problem That Has Been Solved:</b> The official MCP Registry gives clients a central, programmatic way to find and add new servers.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par60"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">AI-Powered IDEs Are a Big Reason:</b> Cursor, Cline, and Windsurf are some of the hosts that are leading the way in getting developers to use MCP. It’s now a key part of the modern coding workflow.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par61"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">A Single Server Works Everywhere:</b> Because of the standard protocol, you can use a single MCP server with many different types of clients, from graphical desktop apps to terminal-based tools.</p></li><li><p class="Para" id="Par62"><b class="EmphasisTypeBold ">The Future Is Federated:</b> The AI industry can grow and come up with new ideas with a central public registry and a wide range of open and closed source clients.</p></li></ul></div></div></section>
</div></section></div></div></body></html>