<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en" lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head><title>The MCP Standard: A Developer's Guide to Building Universal AI Tools with the Model Context Protocol</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/springer_epub.css"/></head><body><div id="book-content"><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section aria-labelledby="Sec7Heading" class="Appendix" epub:type="appendix" id="App2" role="doc-appendix"><section aria-labelledby="Sec7Heading" class="Section1 RenderAsSection1" id="Sec7"><h1 class="Heading" id="Sec7Heading">Appendix B: Glossary of Terms</h1><p class="Para" id="Par46">Agent/AI Agent</p><p class="Para" id="Par47">An autonomous system, powered by an LLM, that can reason, plan, and use tools to accomplish a goal without continuous human intervention.</p><p class="Para" id="Par48">Agentic RAG</p><p class="Para" id="Par49">An advanced form of Retrieval-Augmented Generation where an intelligent agent can dynamically choose between multiple retrieval tools (e.g., a vector database vs. a web search) to find the best information to answer a query, rather than using a single fixed retrieval method.</p><p class="Para" id="Par50">Authentication (AuthN)</p><p class="Para" id="Par51">The process of verifying the identity of a user or client. In MCP, this answers the question, “Who are you?” and typically involves verifying credentials before granting access to the system.</p><p class="Para" id="Par52">Authorization (AuthZ)</p><p class="Para" id="Par53">The process of determining what an authenticated user or client is permitted to do. In MCP, this answers the question, “What are you allowed to do?” and controls access to specific tools, resources, and operations.</p><p class="Para" id="Par54">Client</p><p class="Para" id="Par55">A component within a host application responsible for all low-level communication with a single MCP server. It implements the MCP protocol, handling message formatting, transport management, and communication according to JSON-RPC 2.0 specifications.</p><p class="Para" id="Par56">Elicitation</p><p class="Para" id="Par57"><span aria-label="264" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB264" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>An MCP feature where a server can request additional structured input from users during tool execution. This allows servers to collect missing information, request confirmations before irreversible actions, or authenticate users dynamically at runtime, rather than requiring all inputs upfront.</p><p class="Para" id="Par58">Host</p><p class="Para" id="Par59">A user-facing application, such as an IDE, desktop chat app, or web application, that the user directly interacts with. The host manages the user session, contains one or more MCP clients, orchestrates communication between clients and servers, and acts as the primary security gatekeeper.</p><p class="Para" id="Par60">Indirect Prompt Injection</p><p class="Para" id="Par61">A security attack where malicious instructions are embedded in external data sources (such as documents, web pages, databases, or email) that an AI agent processes. The agent ingests this poisoned data as part of a benign operation and is covertly manipulated into following the attacker’s hidden instructions without the user’s knowledge.</p><p class="Para" id="Par62">JSON-RPC 2.0</p><p class="Para" id="Par63">A lightweight, stateless Remote Procedure Call protocol that uses JSON for its message format. It is the foundational communication standard for all MCP message exchanges between clients and servers, defining request, response, and notification structures.</p><p class="Para" id="Par64">MCP Registry</p><p class="Para" id="Par65">A centralized, API-driven catalog of public MCP servers that acts as a discovery platform or “app store” for AI capabilities. It enables developers and users to find, evaluate, and integrate MCP servers into their applications.</p><p class="Para" id="Par66">Rug Pull Attack</p><p class="Para" id="Par67"><span aria-label="265" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB265" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>A dynamic security attack where a malicious MCP server provides a tool that appears benign initially, gaining user trust over time. Once the tool is embedded in workflows and has been granted permissions, the server silently changes the tool’s behavior or description to become malicious, exploiting the established trust to cause harm.</p><p class="Para" id="Par68">Sampling (Server-Side)</p><p class="Para" id="Par69">An MCP feature that allows a server to request LLM completions from the client during tool execution. This bidirectional communication enables servers to leverage the client’s AI model to perform cognitive tasks (such as text generation, summarization, or analysis) without the server needing its own model or API access. The client maintains control over what prompts are sent to the LLM and what responses are returned.</p><p class="Para" id="Par70">Server</p><p class="Para" id="Par71">An external program that wraps a specific set of capabilities (tools, resources, and prompts) and exposes them to clients through the standardized MCP interface. Servers can connect to databases, APIs, file systems, or other services, translating their functionality into MCP-compatible formats.</p><p class="Para" id="Par72">stdio (Standard Input/Output)</p><p class="Para" id="Par73">A local transport mechanism in MCP used for communication between a host and a server running as a child process on the same machine. The client writes JSON-RPC messages to the server’s standard input (stdin) and reads responses from the server’s standard output (stdout), with messages delimited by newlines.</p><p class="Para" id="Par74">Streamable HTTP</p><p class="Para" id="Par75">A modern, network-based transport mechanism in MCP that replaced HTTP with Server-Sent Events (SSE) transport in protocol version 2025-03-26. It uses HTTP POST and GET requests for client-to-server communication, with optional Server-Sent Events for streaming server-to-client messages. This transport enables remote connections, multiple concurrent clients, and persistent sessions.</p><p class="Para" id="Par76">Tool Poisoning</p><p class="Para" id="Par77"><span aria-label="266" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PB266" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>A security attack where malicious instructions are embedded within the metadata of an MCP tool, typically in the tool’s description field. When an LLM reads this description during tool discovery, it is tricked by the hidden instructions and coerced into performing unintended or malicious actions.</p><p class="Para" id="Par78">Tool Shadowing</p><p class="Para" id="Par79">A security attack where a malicious MCP server defines a tool with the same name or similar characteristics as a tool from a trusted server. This allows the malicious server to intercept or manipulate calls intended for the legitimate tool, hijacking execution within MCP workflows without directly compromising the trusted server.</p><p class="Para" id="Par80">Toxic Flow</p><p class="Para" id="Par81">A chain of individually legitimate tool calls, often triggered by a prompt injection attack, that collectively result in a security breach such as data exfiltration, unauthorized access, or system compromise. The vulnerability lies in the emergent interaction and combined effect of multiple tools rather than in any single tool’s implementation.</p></section>
</section></div></div></body></html>