<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en" lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head><title>The MCP Standard: A Developer's Guide to Building Universal AI Tools with the Model Context Protocol</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/springer_epub.css"/></head><body><div id="book-content"><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section aria-labelledby="acknowledgmenttitle" class="BookAcknowledgments" epub:type="acknowledgments" role="doc-acknowledgments"><h1 class="BookAcknowledgmentsTitle" id="acknowledgmenttitle" lang="en">Acknowledgments</h1><div class="BookAcknowledgmentsBody"><p class="Para" id="Par26">This book would not have been possible without the incredible support I’ve received from many people and communities.</p><p class="Para" id="Par27">I am deeply grateful to Angie Jones, whose inspiration and thoughtful foreword have been instrumental in bringing this work to life.</p><p class="Para" id="Par28">I want to express my deepest gratitude to my technical reviewers, Sai Krishna and Harinee Muralinath, for dedicating their time and expertise to reviewing the chapters of this book. Their thoughtful feedback and technical insights have significantly strengthened this work.</p><p class="Para" id="Par29">To my wife Thejes Sree, whose encouragement and unwavering support have made an immeasurable difference, and to my son Sai Achyuth, thank you both for your patience and understanding throughout this journey. To my mother Rajitha, thank you for instilling in me the values of curiosity and perseverance.</p><p class="Para" id="Par30">I’m grateful to the open source community that has shaped my career. My contributions to Selenium, Appium, and Webdriver.io have deepened my understanding of building universal, standards-based solutions, principles central to this book.</p><p class="Para" id="Par31">To my team at TestMu AI, thank you for fostering an environment that encourages innovation in Agentic AI and the Model Context Protocol.</p><p class="Para" id="Par32">Finally, I want to acknowledge the broader developer community working to democratize AI through open standards and protocols. This book is a testament to our collective belief that universal tools and standards make technology more accessible, powerful, and transformative.</p></div></section></div></div></body></html>