<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en" lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head><title>The MCP Standard: A Developer's Guide to Building Universal AI Tools with the Model Context Protocol</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/springer_epub.css"/></head><body><div id="book-content"><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section aria-label="Copyright Page" class="CopyrightPage" epub:type="copyright-page"><div class="CopyrightPageOriginators"><div class="AuthorGroup"><div class="Author"><span class="AuthorName">Srinivasan Sekar</span><div class="Affiliation" id="Aff1"><div class="AffiliationText">Bengaluru, Karnataka, India</div></div></div></div></div><div class="CopyrightPageISBNs"><span class="CopyrightPagePrintISBN">
				ISBN 979-8-8688-2363-3</span><span class="CopyrightPageElectronicISBN">e-ISBN 979-8-8688-2364-0</span></div><div class="BookDOI"><a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/979-8-8688-2364-0">https://doi.org/10.1007/979-8-8688-2364-0</a></div><div class="CopyrightLine">©  Srinivasan Sekar 2026</div><div class="CopyrightStandardText" lang="en">This work is subject to copyright. All rights are solely and exclusively licensed by the Publisher, whether the whole or part of the material is concerned, specifically the rights of translation, reprinting, reuse of illustrations, recitation, broadcasting, reproduction on microfilms or in any other physical way, and transmission or information storage and retrieval, electronic adaptation, computer software, or by similar or dissimilar methodology now known or hereafter developed.</div><div class="TrademarkQualifierText" lang="en">The use of general descriptive names, registered names, trademarks, service marks, etc. in this publication does not imply, even in the absence of a specific statement, that such names are exempt from the relevant protective laws and regulations and therefore free for general use.</div><div class="ProductLiability" lang="en">The publisher, the authors and the editors are safe to assume that the advice and information in this book are believed to be true and accurate at the date of publication. Neither the publisher nor the authors or the editors give a warranty, expressed or implied, with respect to the material contained herein or for any errors or omissions that may have been made. The publisher remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.</div><div class="SpringerReferenceLine" lang="en"><p class="SimplePara">This Apress imprint is published by the registered company APress Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.</p><p class="SimplePara">The registered company address is: 1 New York Plaza, New York, NY 10004, U.S.A.</p></div></section></div></div></body></html>