<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en" lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head><title>The MCP Standard: A Developer's Guide to Building Universal AI Tools with the Model Context Protocol</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/springer_epub.css"/></head><body><div id="book-content"><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section aria-labelledby="forewordtitle1" class="Foreword" epub:type="foreword" role="doc-foreword"><h1 class="ForewordTitle" id="forewordtitle1" lang="en">Foreword</h1><div class="ForewordBody"><p class="Para" id="Par1">For most people, standards are boring. Reading technical specs often feels like watching paint dry. But when I got my hands on an early draft of the Model Context Protocol (MCP), I was genuinely excited because I knew this would change everything.</p><p class="Para" id="Par2">Imagine asking your AI assistant to “summarize the last five customer support tickets, email a report to the team, and create an issue for anything marked urgent.” Without MCP, each of those steps would require custom integrations for every system involved: email, ticketing, and project management. With MCP, those tools can all expose themselves through a shared language, and the AI just knows how to work with each of those APIs. What a time to be alive!</p><p class="Para" id="Par3">We’re living in an important, culture-defining moment. Generative AI is finally in everyone’s hands. In the midst of all this creativity and innovation, there’s also a little bit of beautiful chaos. We’re in a global race where companies everywhere are building something new. Each model has its own software development kit (SDK). Each tool has its own dialect. And connecting them can feel like stitching together an AI version of Frankenstein… brilliant, but barely holding it together.</p><p class="Para" id="Par4">This chaos isn’t a bad thing; it’s the sound of progress. It’s what happens when innovation moves faster than coordination. But eventually, creativity needs structure. And that’s usually when the grownups of technology show up: the standards.</p><p class="Para" id="Par5">Open standards are the quiet heroes of our connected world. They’re the reason you can hop on Wi-Fi anywhere, send an Outlook email to a Gmail user, or browse the web from any device on the planet. They’ve made it possible for people and ideas to connect, no matter who built the system on the other end.</p><p class="Para" id="Par621"><span aria-label="xxii" epub:type="pagebreak" id="PBxxii" role="doc-pagebreak"></span>And as companies build practical AI systems for the masses, we have to think about sustainability. To ensure these systems last and remain interoperable, open standards will once again be essential for guiding how AI systems work together.</p><p class="Para" id="Par722">That’s what makes MCP so exciting. It’s the connective tissue of the AI ecosystem. MCP gives models, tools, and agents a common language to collaborate. It replaces bespoke integrations with something that actually scales.</p><p class="Para" id="Par823">Every major leap in computing, from the PC to the web to the cloud, had its defining standard. MCP is that moment for AI. It takes us from individual hacks to shared progress. From chaos to clarity.</p><p class="Para" id="Par925">Srinivasan Sekar tells this story beautifully in <i class="EmphasisTypeItalic ">The MCP Standard: A Developer’s Guide to Building Universal AI Tools with the Model Context Protocol</i>. It’s deeply technical yet strategic, making it the perfect guide for the builders shaping the next generation of intelligent systems.</p><p class="Para" id="Par1027">Every generation gets a chance to define how the next one builds. This book provides us with a blueprint to do just that, with MCP. Use it well.</p><div class="Para"><blockquote class="BlockQuote"><p class="Para" id="Par1131">—Angie Jones</p></blockquote></div><div class="Para"><blockquote class="BlockQuote"><p class="Para" id="Par1231">VP of Engineering, AI Tools &amp; Enablement</p></blockquote></div></div></section></div></div></body></html>